This is the file of quotes used in the Custom Quote Generator. You may add topics, subtopics, and quotes to the file, but if you will, please follow the following rules to ensure the program runs correctly:
- Follow the layout that has been established
- Do not use the heading titles anywhere other than as heading titles
- Make sure all quotation marks are the vertical one from your keyboard (")
- Do not use double quotes within any quotes or inside the source
- Make sure the source is on the line right after the quote
- Make sure there is a gap between quotes
- If you add a gap within a quote, have a space within it
- If you add a newline within a quote, add a space to the start of that line
- Use this symbol ― for the source
- Do not delete the last line of the file

MAINTOPIC: Art

SUBTOPIC: Abstract

QUOTE: "Abstraction allows man to see with his mind what he cannot see physically with his eyes....Abstract art enables the artist to perceive beyond the tangible, to extract the infinite out of the finite. It is the emancipation of the mind. It is an exploration into unknown areas."
― Arshile Gorky

QUOTE: "Life is an abstract art, and it’s up to you to make sense of it."
― Talismanist Giebra, Talismanist: Fragments of the Ancient Fire. Philosophy of Fragmentism Series.

QUOTE: "Abstract Art is considered as one of the pious forms in expressing one-self without any detailed illustration of reality. It uses a perceptible language such as shapes, color, line, form and gestural marks to create a beauty which may persist with a degree of freedom from visual references in the world."
― 7 Arts Online

QUOTE: "The popularity of abstract art is easily explained, when you consider all art represents reality, and mystery is part of our reality."
― Robert Black

QUOTE: "But nobody is visually naive any longer. We are cluttered with images, and only abstract art can bring us to the threshold of the divine."
― Dominique De Menil, The Rothko Chapel: Writings on Art and the Threshold of the Divine

QUOTE: "The less there is to look at, the more important it is that we look at it closely and carefully. This is critical to abstract art. Small differences make all the difference."
― Kirk Varnedoe, Pictures of Nothing: Abstract Art Since Pollock

QUOTE: "What goes on in abstract art is the proclaiming of aesthetic principles... It is in our own time that we have become aware of pure aesthetic considerations. Art can never be imitation."
― Hans Hofmann

QUOTE: "There is no abstract art. You must always start with something. Afterward you can remove all traces of reality."
― Pablo Picasso

QUOTE: "Abstract art has helped us to experience the emotional power inherent in pure form."
― Anton Ehrenzweig

QUOTE: "Abstract art is not the creation of another reality but the true vision of reality."
― Piet Mondrian

SUBTOPIC: Gothic

QUOTE: "On the one hand, Gothic art abandons the decorative and predominantly cumulative style of Romanesque composition, replacing this by forms more akin to the classical, based upon the principle of concentration. On the other hand, it breaks up the whole, which in Romanesque art was at least pervaded by a certain decorative unity, into a number of partial compositions, each one in the main built up according to the classical principle of unity and of subordination, but in total giving the effect of a rather indiscriminate conglomeration of subjects."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art, Volume 1: From Prehistoric Times to the Middle Ages

QUOTE: "In periods such as the early Middle Ages, which in general were free from social conflict, there is not, as a rule, any radical antagonism between artistic intention and technique; the art forms and the technique are employed harmoniously and say the same thing in different ways, the one factor being no more rational or irrational than the other. But in times like the Gothic age, when the whole of culture was rent by antagonisms, it often happens that the spiritual and material elements in art speak different languages and, as in the present case, the technique appears rational but the artistic aims irrational."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art, Volume 1: From Prehistoric Times to the Middle Ages

QUOTE: "Since Gothic days all great art, with the exception of a few short-lived classicist movements, has something fragmentary about it, an inward or outward incompleteness, an unwillingness, whether conscious or unconscious, to utter the last word. There is always something left over for the spectator or reader to complete. The modern artist shrinks from the last word, because he feels the inadequacy of all words— a feeling which we may say was never experienced by man before Gothic times."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art, Volume 1: From Prehistoric Times to the Middle Ages

QUOTE: "The principle of the Gothic architecture is infinity made imaginable. It is no doubt a sublimer effort of genius than the Greek style; but then it depends much more on execution for its effect."
― Samuel Taylor Coleridge

QUOTE: "All the great works of art, the cathedrals - the Gothic cathedrals and the splendid Baroque churches - are a luminous sign of God, and thus are truly a manifestation, an epiphany of God."
― Pope Benedict XVI

QUOTE: "Our Lord said that if men withheld their praise of him, 'the very stones would cry out', which they did as, later, they burst into Gothic cathedrals."
— 1962 These Are the Sacraments

QUOTE: "People in those old times had convictions; we moderns only have opinions. And it needs more than a mere opinion to erect a Gothic cathedral."
— Französische Bühne (The French Stage), ch. 9 (1837)

SUBTOPIC: Graffiti

QUOTE: "Graffiti is one of the few tools you have if you have almost nothing. And even if you don't come up with a picture to cure world poverty you can make someone smile while they're having a piss."
― Banksy, Banging Your Head Against a Brick Wall

QUOTE: "Some people become cops because they want to make the world a better place. Some people become vandals because they want to make the world a better looking place."
― Banksy, Wall and Piece

QUOTE: "People say graffiti is ugly, irresponsible and childish... but that's only if it's done properly."
― Banksy, Wall and Piece

QUOTE: "I laugh at the way some people think graffiti is all selfish tagging and vandalism. Thoughtful street art is like good fiction – it speaks out on behalf of everyone, for us all to see."
― Carla H. Krueger

QUOTE: "Graffiti art brings you back to your human skills – your spirit and what your being is really about."
― KRS-One

QUOTE: "The parts of graffiti I like are really antagonizing still – it’s not something that a museum would really embrace."
― Barry McGee

QUOTE: "Everybody’s trying to leave their mark on the world. That’s why there’s graffiti and babies."
― Kristen Schaal

QUOTE: "Some people are enraged, and some people are applauding. If there were a mission statement for graffiti, that would be it."
― Barry McGee

QUOTE: "The people who run our cities don’t understand graffiti because they think nothing has the right to exist unless it makes a profit… the people who truly deface our neighborhoods are the companies that scrawl giant slogans across buildings and buses trying to make us feel inadequate unless we buy their stuff."
― Banksy

SUBTOPIC: Impressionism

QUOTE: "Impression — I was certain of it. I was just telling myself that, since I was impressed, there had to be some impression in it … and what freedom, what ease of workmanship! Wallpaper in its embryonic state is more finished than that seascape."
― Claude Monet

QUOTE: "What seems most significant to me about our movement [Impressionism] is that we have freed painting from the importance of the subject. I am at liberty to paint flowers and call them flowers, without their needing to tell a story."
― Pierre-Auguste Renoir

QUOTE: "... from the classically executed lifelike bouquets, tempting you to reach for the petals that fell on a three-dimensional tablecloth, to a new and disturbing style in which the colors seemed to blaze with such intensity they destroyed the old lines, the old solidity, to make a vision like those states which I'm nearest my delirium and flowers grow before my eyes and crackle like the flames of lamps."
― Anne Rice, Interview with the Vampire

QUOTE: "I paint what I see and not what others like to see."
― Édouard Manet

QUOTE: "Impressionism is not a movement, it is a philosophy of life."
― Max Lieberman

QUOTE: "I do not want you to just be into my photography, instead, I'd much rather you take a journey into my pictures, and feel the impression I have created, feel it with all your senses."
― Bodhi Smith, Bodhi Smith Impressionist Photography

QUOTE: "For an Impressionist to paint from nature is not to paint the subject, but to realize sensations."
― Paul Cezanne

QUOTE: "The point is that any piece of Impressionism, whether it be prose, verse or painting, or sculpture, is the record of the impression."
— F. S. Flint German Chronicle, Poetry & Drama, vol. II, ed. Harold Munro Poetry Bookshop, London 1914

QUOTE: "Impressionism is at the root of all modern art, because it was the first movement that managed to free itself from preconceived ideas, and because it changed not only the way life was depicted but the way life was seen."
— Francesco Salvi, in Nancy Bachus The Modern Piano: The Influence of Society, Style, and Musical Trends on the Great Piano Composers, Alfred Music Publishing, 1 August 2006, p.10

QUOTE: "Once the impression is captured, they declare their role finished."
— Jules-Antoine Castagnary

SUBTOPIC: Modern

QUOTE: "Modern paintings are like women, you'll never enjoy them if you try to understand them."
― Freddie Mercury

QUOTE: "Skill without imagination is craftsmanship and gives us many useful objects such as wickerwork picnic baskets. Imagination without skill gives us modern art."
― Tom Stoppard, Artist Descending a Staircase

QUOTE: "The deflation, or flattening out, of values in Modern art does not necessarily indicate an ethical nihilism. Quite the contrary; in opening our eyes to the rejected elements of existence, art may lead us to a more complete and less artificial celebration of the world."
― William Barrett, Irrational Man: A Study in Existential Philosophy

QUOTE: "I think a lot of modern art is complete bullshit. But I admire the creativity. The weird shit people think of! Some of the most interesting things I've ever seen in my life, I've seen in modern art museums. And that's what art is all about. It's supposed to make you think."
― Oliver Markus Malloy, Bad Choices Make Good Stories - Finding Happiness in Los Angeles

QUOTE: "Make it new is the message not just of modern art but of modern consumerism, of which modern art is largely a mirror image."
― Christopher Lasch

QUOTE: "In its most limited sense, modern art would seem to concern itself only with the technical innovations of the period."
― Edward Hopper

QUOTE: "What is modern art but the attempt to pinpoint vague, incorporeal, inexpressible sensations? What is modern art, I would add, but the most solemn pile of nonsense that ever appeared on Earth?"
― Italo Calvino

QUOTE: "The huge problem in our society is the enormous ignorance of the ideas that underlie modern art."
― Thom Mayne

QUOTE: "In our world, in which religious images are losing their meaning, in which our customs are getting more and more secular, we are losing our sense of the eternal. I think it's a loss that has done a great deal of damage to modern art. Painting is a return to origins."
― Antoni Tapies

SUBTOPIC: Pop Art

QUOTE: "Pop is about speaking everybody's language. The imagery and iconography we instantly recognize. When you can rely on things that the public already knows, you're dealing with Pop."
― Nuno Roque

QUOTE: "I have a transgressive spirit, and Pop is transgression's best friend."
― Nuno Roque

QUOTE: "A nation lives by its myths and heroes. Many societies have survived defeat and invasion, even political and economic collapse. None has survived the corruption of its picture of itself. High and popular art are not in competition here. Both may help citizens decide what they are and what they admire. In our age, however, high art has given up speaking to the body of its fellow citizens. It devotes itself to technical displays that can appeal only to other technicians."
― E. Christian Kopff, The Devil Knows Latin: Why America Needs the Classical Tradition

QUOTE: "Pop Art looks out into the world. It doesn't look like a painting of something, it looks like the thing itself."
― Roy Lichtenstein

QUOTE: "The novel is always pop art, and the novel is always dying. That's the only way it stays alive. It does really die. I've been thinking about that a lot."
― Leslie Fiedler

QUOTE: "I would like to think of my purpose as a search for what is epic in everyday objects."
― Richard Hamilton

QUOTE: "The artist in twentieth-century urban life is inevitably a consumer of mass culture and potentially a contributor to it."
― Richard Hamilton

SUBTOPIC: Realism

QUOTE: "I wish to confound all these people, to create a work of art of a supernatural realism and of a spiritualist naturalism. I wish to prove... that nothing is explained in the mysteries which surround us."
― Joris-Karl Huysmans

QUOTE: "Realism falls short of reality. It shrinks it, attenuates it, falsifies it; it does not take into account our basic truths and our fundamental obsessions: love, death, astonishment. It presents man in a reduced and estranged perspective. Truth is in our dreams, in the imagination."
― Eugène Ionesco

QUOTE: "The realist painter is always treading a tightrope between two worlds – the conscious mind and its perception of reality. But are these really different worlds? And what exactly is reality?"
― Gwenneth Barth

QUOTE: "Every realistic picture represents a choice as to which features of reality should be given prominence; no painting ever captures the whole…"
― Alain de Botton

QUOTE: "There is an instinct for realism, a powerful drive to reproduce oneself. The fascination of photorealistic paintings lies partly in their apparent replication of life, but these are not merely replications. These paintings are often out of life scale, varying from over life-size to under life-size, from brilliant, heightened color to pale, undertone hues."
― Audrey Flack

QUOTE: "You are to draw not reality, but the appearance of reality!"
― William Morris Hunt

QUOTE: "True realism, materialist realism lies in the search for the expression of forms faithful to their content. But there is no content detached from human interest."
― Asger Jorn

QUOTE: "Caravaggio's hyper-realism, a magician's conjuring trick, I have come to regard as a perfect metaphor for great art, which declines to make obvious its deepest truths, leaving us to decipher them if we can."
― Michael Kimmelman

QUOTE: "'Completely true to nature!' – what a lie: How could nature ever be constrained into a picture? The smallest bit of nature is infinite! And so he paints what he likes about it. And what does he like? He likes what he can paint!"
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "I often told the fanatics of realism that there is no such thing as realism in art: it only exists in the mind of the observer. Art is a symbol, a thing conjuring up reality in our mental image. That is why I don't see any contradiction between abstract and figurative art either."
― Antoni Tapies

SUBTOPIC: Renaissance
QUOTE: "A comparably capacious embrace of beauty and pleasure - an embrace that somehow extends to death as well as life, to dissolution as well as creation - characterizes Montaigne's restless reflections on matter in motion, Cervantes's chronicle of his mad knight, Michelangelo's depiction of flayed skin, Leonardo's sketches of whirlpools, Caravaggio's loving attention to the dirty soles of Christ's feet."
― Stephen Greenblatt, The Swerve: How the World Became Modern

QUOTE: "The Renaissance was not a civilization of small shopkeepers and artisans, nor of a well-to-do, half-educated middle class, but rather the jealously guarded possession of a highbrow and Latinized elite. This consisted mainly of those classes of society which were associated with the humanistic and Neoplatonic movement - a uniform and, on the whole, like-minded intelligentsia such as, for example, the clergy, taken as a totality, had never been. The important works of art were intended for this circle. The broader masses either had no knowledge at all of them or appreciated them inadequately and from a non-artistic point of view, finding their own aesthetic pleasure in inferior products. This was the origin of that unbridgeable gulf between an educated minority and an uneducated majority which had never been known before to this extent and which was to be such a decisive factor in the whole future development of art."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art: Volume 2: Renaissance, Mannerism, Baroque

QUOTE: "The doctrine of spontaneous naturalism of Renaissance comes from the same source as the theory that the fight against the spirit of authority and hierarchy, the ideal of freedom of thought and freedom of conscience, the emancipation of the individual and the principle of democracy are achievements of the fifteenth century. In all this light of the modern age is contrasted with the darkness of the Middle Ages."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art: Volume 2: Renaissance, Mannerism, Baroque

QUOTE: "He could do nothing else but follow this intrinsically conservative tendency, conservative because tending towards a timeless and abstract canon of form, but nevertheless progressive in the stylistic situation of the time."
― Arnold Hauser, The Social History of Art: Volume 2: Renaissance, Mannerism, Baroque

QUOTE: "These two developments throw light on what is perhaps the most fundamental difference between the Renaissance and all previous periods of art. We have repeatedly seen that there were these circumstances which could compel the artist to make a distinction between the 'technical' proportions and the 'objective;' the influence of organic movement, the influence of perspective foreshortening, and the regard for the visual impression of the beholder. These three factors of variation have one thing in common: they all presuppose the artistic recognition of subjectivity. Organic movement introduces into the calculus of artistic composition the subjective will and the subjective emotions of the thing represented; foreshortening the subjective visual experience of the artist; and those 'eurhythmic' adjustments which alter that which is right in favor of what seems right, the subjective visual experience of a potential beholder. And it is the Renaissance which, for the first time, not only affirms but formally legitimizes and rationalizes these three forms of subjectivity."
― Erwin Panofsky, Meaning in the Visual Arts

QUOTE: "If I am not mistaken, the word 'art' and 'artist' did not exist during the Renaissance and before: there were simply architects, sculptors, and painters, practicing a trade."
― M. C. Escher

QUOTE: "The hallmark of the Renaissance was its holistic quality as all fields of art, engineering, science and culture shared the same exciting spirit and many of the same intellectual principles."
― Joel Garreau

QUOTE: "Put yourself in the position of an up-and-coming artist living in early-sixteenth-century Italy. Now imagine trying to distinguish yourself from the other artists living in your town: Michelangelo, Raphael, Leonardo, or Titian. Is it any wonder that the Italian High Renaissance lasted only 30 years?"
― Jerry Saltz

QUOTE: "The Renaissance is studded by the names of the artists and architects, with their creations recorded as great historical events."
― Arthur Erickson

SUBTOPIC: Romanticism

QUOTE: "I set about seeking a thread, a theme, a style, in the realm of legend. Something that might allow me to give free rein to my juvenile sense of romanticism and the beautiful image."
― Leni Riefenstahl

QUOTE: "Plato’s heirs—armed with his methods, but unchained from his wistful predilections—abstracted away the faces of the pagan gods: the marbles that in Homer’s day were warm Olympian flesh were philosophized into dust and that dust into theology. Consequently, the labor of keeping beauty and goodness yoked became moot as their separation in the realm of experience, in art and religion—their correspondent spheres of human activity—became so obviously distinct. Christianity supplanted paganism and the art of yore, which had formerly been principally confined to civil and religious expression, was gradually supplanted by an art that was its own unique means by which humanity understood itself. In due course, following the birth of Romanticism, art stood on the field of history its own inexorable self."
― Michael Shindler

QUOTE: "They would be astonished to discover the seriously German problem that we are dealing with, a vortex and a turning-point at the very centre of German hopes. But perhaps those same people will find it distasteful to see an aesthetic problem taken so seriously, if they can see art as nothing more than an entertaining irrelevance, an easily dispensable tinkle of bells next to the 'seriousness of life': as if no one was aware what this contrast with the 'seriousness of life' amounted to. Let these serious people know that I am convinced that art is the supreme task and the truly metaphysical activity of this life in the sense of that man, my noble champion on that path, to whom I dedicate this book."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy

QUOTE: "But at the same time it inaugurates an æsthetic which is still valid in our world, an æsthetic of solitary creators, who are obstinate rivals of a God they condemn. From romanticism onward, the artist’s task will not only be to create a world, or to exalt beauty for its own sake, but also to define an attitude. Thus the artist becomes a model and offers himself as an example: art is his ethic. With him begins the age of the directors of conscience. When the dandies fail to commit suicide or do not go mad, they make a career and pursue prosperity."
― Albert Camus, The Rebel

QUOTE: "Energy was the ruling theme of Victorian science, as machines increasingly harnessed the forces of nature to do man's work. The concept is also present in the art and literature of the age, notably in the poems of William Blake. The Romantic movement was much interested in energy and its various transformations."
― Jeremy Campbell, Grammatical Man: Information, Entropy, Language and Life

SUBTOPIC: Surrealism

QUOTE: "Surrealism, then, neither aims to subvert realism, as does the fantastic, nor does it try to transcend it. It looks for different means by which to explore reality itself."
― Michael Richardson, Dedalus Book of Surrealism 2: The Myth of the World

QUOTE: "Surrealism is destructive, but it destroys only what it considers to be shackles limiting our vision."
― Salvador Dali

QUOTE: "Dive again and again into the river of uncertainty. Create in the dark, only then can you recognize the light."
― Jyrki Vainonen

QUOTE: "I believe in the future resolution of these two states, dream and reality, which are seemingly so contradictory, into a kind of absolute reality, a surreality, if one may so speak."
― André Breton, Manifestoes of Surrealism

QUOTE: "Surrealism also refuses the representation of reality: reality can only be; its existence proves its reality. Fiction thereby becomes impossible or is, by definition, false."
― Michael Richardson, Dedalus Book of Surrealism 2: The Myth of the World

QUOTE: "The shifting sands of the world... show how much the surrealists were drawn towards an interrogation of what reality actually is. Unlike fabulists of whatever hue, there is a materiality in surrealist writing that resolutely keeps it, one might say, 'down to earth'."
― Michael Richardson, Dedalus Book of Surrealism 2: The Myth of the World

QUOTE: "Refusing what Adorno called that 'comfort in the uncomfortable' taken by the fantastic, surrealism seeks to reintegrate man into the universe."
― Michael Richardson, The Dedalus Book of Surrealism: The Identity of Things

QUOTE: "Surrealism is not a movement. It is a latent state of mind perceivable through the powers of dream and nightmare."
― Salvador Dalí

QUOTE: "The over-intellectualization of surrealism can be a bromide. A dream interpreted is a deflated dream."
― Graham Joyce

MAINTOPIC: Business / Finance

SUBTOPIC: Banking

QUOTE: "If you owe your bank a hundred pounds, you have a problem. But if you owe a million, it has."
― John Maynard Keynes

QUOTE: "By this means the government may secretly and unobserved, confiscate the wealth of the people, and not one man in a million will detect the theft."
― John Maynard Keynes, The Economic Consequences of the Peace

QUOTE: "The bankers and financiers are badly overplaying their hands, again, and people are starting to catch on to the scam.
 Real wealth is tangible things produced with tangible effort. Loans made out of thin-air 'money' require no effort and are entirely ephemeral.
 But if those loans are used to acquire real ownership of real assets, then something has been exchanged for nothing and one party is getting screwed."
― Chris Martenson

QUOTE: "Banks do not create money for the public good. They are businesses owned by private shareholders. Their purpose is to make a profit."
― John Rogers, Local Money: What Difference Does It Make?

QUOTE: "New Golden Rule of Fractional Reserve Banking: He who creates the 'fool's gold' controls the fools."
― Orrin Woodward

QUOTE: "The bank - or the Company - needs - wants -insists - must have - as though the bank or the Company were a monster, with thought and feeling, which had ensnared them... The banks were machines and masters all at the same time...
 They breathe profits; they eat the interest on money. If they don't get it they die... It is a sad thing, but it is so. It is just so."
― John Steinbeck, The Grapes of Wrath

QUOTE: "With a gun a man can rob a bank, with a bank a man can rob the world."
― Carter Glass

QUOTE: "We have, in this country, one of the most corrupt institutions the world has ever known. I refer to the Federal Reserve Board. This evil institution has impoverished the people of the United States and has practically bankrupted our government. It has done this through the corrupt practices of the moneyed vultures who control it."
― Louis T. McFadden

QUOTE: "Myth: Feeding the banking sector gobs of welfare cash will bring about a recovery. Fact: Our leaders are only dedicated to preserving power."
― Ziad K. Abdelnour, Economic Warfare: Secrets of Wealth Creation in the Age of Welfare Politics

QUOTE: "I sincerely believe... that banking establishments are more dangerous than standing armies."
― Thomas Jefferson

QUOTE: "It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning."
― Henry Ford

SUBTOPIC: Quotes from C.E.Os

QUOTE: "It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you’ll do things differently"
― Warren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway

QUOTE: "In this ever-changing society, the most powerful and enduring brands are built from the heart. They are real and sustainable. Their foundations are stronger because they are built with the strength of the human spirit, not an ad campaign. The companies that are lasting are those that are authentic."
― Howard Schultz, CEO of Starbucks

QUOTE: "A man must be big enough to admit his mistakes, smart enough to profit from them, and strong enough to correct them."
― John C. Maxwell, CEO of The John Maxwell Company

QUOTE: "Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart."
― Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple

QUOTE: "The number one benefit of information technology is that it empowers people to do what they want to do. It lets people be creative. It lets people be productive. It lets people learn things they didn’t think they could learn before, and so in a sense it is all about potential." 
― Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft

QUOTE: "Capital isn’t scarce. Vision is." 
― Sam Walton, CEO of Wal-Mart

QUOTE: "I always did something I was a little not ready to do. I think that’s how you grow. When there’s that moment of ‘Wow, I’m not really sure I can do this,’ and you push through those moments, that’s when you have a breakthrough."
― Marissa Mayer, CEO of Yahoo

QUOTE: "Leaders get out in front and stay there by raising the standards by which they judge themselves—and by which they are willing to be judged."
― Frederick W. Smith, CEO of FedEx

QUOTE: "When you innovate, you’ve got to be prepared for everyone telling you you’re nuts."
― Larry Ellison, CEO of Oracle

QUOTE: "I do not think that there is any other quality so essential to success of any kind as the quality of perseverance. It overcomes almost everything, even nature."
― John D. Rockefeller, CEO of Standard Oil

QUOTE: "Every time you make the hard, correct decision you become a bit more courageous, and every time you make the easy, wrong decision you become a bit more cowardly. If you are CEO, these choices will lead to a courageous or cowardly company."
― Ben Horowitz, Andreessen Horowitz

QUOTE: "To build a great company, which is a CEO's job, sometimes you have to stand up against conventional wisdom."
― Carly Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard

QUOTE: "The path to the CEO's office should not be through the CFO's office, and it should not be through the marketing department. It needs to be through engineering and design."
― Elon Musk, SpaceX

SUBTOPIC: Cryptocurrency

QUOTE: "Cryptocurrency is freedom, Banking is slavery."
― Arif Naseem

QUOTE: "Bitcoin will do to banks what email did to the postal industry."
― Rick Falkvinge, Founder of the Swedish pirate party

QUOTE: "Bitcoin is the most stellar and most useful system of mutual trust ever devised."
― Santosh Kalwar

QUOTE: "Cryptocurrency is absolutely here to stay. If you can't see that at this point, it's time to learn more about it."
― Joel McLeod

QUOTE: "I think the internet is going to be one of the major forces for reducing the role of government. The one thing that’s missing but that will soon be developed is a reliable e-cash."
― Professor Milton Friedman

QUOTE: "But all those who used their knowledge in a bid to enact social change saw cryptography as a tool to enhance individual privacy and to shift power from big, central institutions to the human beings who live in their orbit."
― Paul Vigna

QUOTE: "If you care about liberty, the nonaggression principle, or economic freedom in general you should do everything you can to use Bitcoin as often as possible in your daily life."
― Roger Ver aka 'Bitcoin Jesus' Voluntaryist

QUOTE: "Bitcoin is a very exciting development, it might lead to a world currency. I think over the next decade it will grow to become one of the most important ways to pay for things and transfer assets."
― Kim Dotcom

QUOTE: "Bitcoin is the beginning of something great: a currency without a government, something necessary and imperative."
― Nassim Taleb

QUOTE: "Bitcoin gives us, for the first time, a way for one Internet user to transfer a unique piece of digital property to another Internet user, such that the transfer is guaranteed to be safe and secure, everyone knows that the transfer has taken place, and nobody can challenge the legitimacy of the transfer. The consequences of this breakthrough are hard to overstate."
― Marc Andreesen

QUOTE: "You can’t stop things like Bitcoin. It will be everywhere and the world will have to readjust. World governments will have to readjust." 
― John McAfee

SUBTOPIC: Economics

QUOTE: "Economics is a knack of managing unlimited demand with limited supply."
― Amit Kalantri, Wealth of Words

QUOTE: "It is no crime to be ignorant of economics, which is, after all, a specialized discipline and one that most people consider to be a ‘dismal science.’ But it is totally irresponsible to have a loud and vociferous opinion on economic subjects while remaining in this state of ignorance."
― Murray N. Rothbard

QUOTE: "Look, America is no more a democracy than Russia is a Communist state. The governments of the U.S. and Russia are practically the same. There's only a difference of degree. We both have the same basic form of government: economic totalitarianism. In other words, the settlement to all questions, the solutions to all issues are determined not by what will make the people most healthy and happy in the bodies and their minds but by economics. Dollars or rubles. Economy uber alles. Let nothing interfere with economic growth, even though that growth is castrating truth, poisoning beauty, turning a continent into a shit-heap and driving an entire civilization insane. Don't spill the Coca-Cola, boys, and keep those monthly payments coming."
― Tom Robbins, Another Roadside Attraction

QUOTE: "If you are rich, you have to be an idiot not to stay rich. And if you are poor, you have to be really smart to get rich."
― John Green

QUOTE: "Anyone who believes that exponential growth can go on forever in a finite world is either a madman or an economist."
― Kenneth Boulding

QUOTE: "The rich run a global system that allows them to accumulate capital and pay the lowest possible price for labour. The freedom that results applies only to them. The many simply have to work harder, in conditions that grow ever more insecure, to enrich the few. Democratic politics, which purports to enrich the many, is actually in the pocket of those bankers, media barons and other moguls who run and own everything."
― Charles Moore

QUOTE: "Economics is extremely useful as a form of employment for economists."
― John Kenneth Galbraith

QUOTE: "The inscrutability [of economics] is perhaps not unintentional. It gives endless employment to dialecticians who otherwise might become public charges or, at very worst, swindlers and tricksters."
― Jack Vance

QUOTE: "The most important question in 21st-century economics may well be, 'What should we do with all the superfluous people, once we have highly intelligent non-conscious algorithms that can do almost everything better than humans?'"
― Yuval Noah Harari

QUOTE: "Economics has revealed a great truth about the natural law of human interaction: that not only is production essential to man's prosperity and survival, but so also is exchange."
― Murray Rothbard

SUBTOPIC: Entrepreneurship

QUOTE: "But as an entrepreneur you have to feel like you can jump out of an aeroplane because you’re confident that you’ll catch a bird flying by. It’s an act of stupidity, and most entrepreneurs go splat because the bird doesn’t come by, but a few times it does."
― Reed Hastings, CEO of Netflix

QUOTE: "It has been my observation that most people get ahead during the time that others waste."
— Henry Ford

QUOTE: "A man can succeed at almost anything for which he has unlimited enthusiasm."
— Charles Schwab

QUOTE: "Do the impossible, because almost everyone has told me my ideas are merely fantasies."
— Howard Hughes

QUOTE: "An entrepreneur is someone who jumps off a cliff and builds a plane on the way down."
— Reid Hoffman

QUOTE: "Ignore the hype of the startups that you see in the press. Mostly, it’s a pack of lies. Half of these startups will be dead in a year. So, focus on building your business so you can be the one left standing."
— Jules Pieri, Co-founder and CEO of The Grommet

QUOTE: "As a founder, lay all the possible scenarios -- from best to worst -- in front of you, so you don’t get surprised when something happens."
— Brian Wong, Co-founder of Kiip

QUOTE: "If something is important enough, or you believe something is important enough, even if you are scared, you will keep going."
— Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors and SpaceX

QUOTE: "Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life. Don’t be trapped by dogma – which is living with the results of other people’s thinking. Don’t let the noise of other’s opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary."
— Steve Jobs

QUOTE: "It doesn’t matter how many times you fail. It doesn’t matter how many times you almost get it right. No one is going to know or care about your failures, and neither should you. All you have to do is learn from them and those around you because all that matters in business is that you get it right once. Then everyone can tell you how lucky you are." 
— Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks, co-founder of Broadcast.com, founder of HDNet

QUOTE: "When you’re ready to quit, you are closer than you think."
— Bob Parsons, Founder Of GoDaddy

QUOTE: "Here’s to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They’re not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can’t do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do."
— Steve Jobs

SUBTOPIC: Capitalism / Socialism

QUOTE: "The Marxians love of democratic institutions was a stratagem only, a pious fraud for the deception of the masses. Within a socialist community there is no room left for freedom."
― Ludwig Von Mises

QUOTE: "Under capitalism the common man enjoys amenities which in ages gone by were unknown and therefore inaccessible even to the richest people. But, of course, these motorcars, television sets and refrigerators do not make a man happy. In the instant in which he acquires them, he may feel happier than he did before. But as soon as some of his wishes are satisfied, new wishes spring up. Such is human nature."
― Ludwig Von Mises, The Anti-Capitalistic Mentality

QUOTE: "Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of production and trade..."
― Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged

QUOTE: "What I'm saying to you this morning is that Communism forgets that life is individual. Capitalism forgets that life is social, and the Kingdom of Brotherhood is found neither in the thesis of Communism nor the antithesis of capitalism but in a higher synthesis."
― Martin Luther King Jr.

QUOTE: "State ownership! It leads only to absurd and monstrous conclusions; state ownership means state monopoly, concentrated in the hands of one party and its adherents, and that state brings only ruin and bankruptcy to all."
― Benito Mussolini

QUOTE: "It seems to me that socialists today can preserve their position in academic economics merely by the pretense that the differences are entirely moral questions about which science cannot decide."
― Friedrich August von Hayek

QUOTE: "Here's what I don't think works: An economic system that was founded in the 16th century and another that was founded in the 19th century. I'm tired of this discussion of capitalism and socialism; we live in the 21st century; we need an economic system that has democracy as its underpinnings and an ethical code."
― Michael Moore

QUOTE: "Socialism is a philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance, and the gospel of envy, its inherent virtue is the equal sharing of misery."
― Winston Churchill

QUOTE: "Socialism states that you owe me something simply because I exist. Capitalism, by contrast, results in a sort of reality-forced altruism: I may not want to help you, I may dislike you, but if I don't give you a product or service you want, I will starve. Voluntary exchange is more moral than forced redistribution."
― Ben Shapiro

QUOTE: "What we do today has nothing to do with capitalism or socialism. It is a crony type of system that transfers money to the coffers of bureaucrats."
― Nassim Nicholas Taleb

SUBTOPIC: Investing

QUOTE: "Money is always eager and ready to work for anyone who is ready to employ it."
― Idowu Koyenikan, Wealth for All: Living a Life of Success at the Edge of Your Ability

QUOTE: "If you invest nothing, the reward is worth little."
― Richelle E. Goodrich, Being Bold: Quotes, Stories, & Motivations for Every Day of the Year

QUOTE: "Unlike popular belief, the biggest challenge with investing is not where to invest. It is about starting to invest, and then continuing to invest through thick and thin, until your target is reached."
― Manoj Arora, The Autobiography Of A Stock

QUOTE: "Good investments are not pushed, promoted, or sold. We need to uncover them on our own and only after due diligence (careful analysis) buy them."
― Milan Somborac, Monday Morning Millionaire: How to Beat Wall Street at Its Own Game

QUOTE: "It is what a person will do with the saved money that will make a big difference in his or her finances."
― H. J. Chammas

QUOTE: "Remember the story of the tortoise and the hare? While many investors have ‘sprinted’ toward their investment goals, success is most often found by consistent action, not big action."
― Brandon Turner, How to Invest in Real Estate: The Ultimate Beginner's Guide to Getting Started

QUOTE: "He who earns and does not invest will have to work for the rest of his life."
― Debasish Mridha

QUOTE: "Only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked."
― Warren Buffett, Warren Buffett Speaks

QUOTE: "There are no good or bad stocks. The company is either good or bad. Stocks are just stocks."
― Kenneth L. Fisher, Beat the Crowd: How You Can Out-Invest the Herd by Thinking Differently

QUOTE: "How many millionaires do you know who have become wealthy by investing in savings accounts? I rest my case."
― Robert G. Allen

SUBTOPIC: Money

QUOTE: "Every time you spend money, you're casting a vote for the kind of world you want."
― Anna Lappe

QUOTE: "People who are good at complaining about not having a lot of money are generally bad at not wasting money."
― Mokokoma Mokhonoana

QUOTE: "Too many people spend money they earned, to buy things they don't want, to impress people that they don't like."
― Will Rogers

QUOTE: "Money is only a tool. It will take you wherever you wish, but it will not replace you as the driver."
― Ayn Rand

QUOTE: "Money is a terrible master but an excellent servant."
― P.T. Barnum

QUOTE: "You must gain control over your money or the lack of it will forever control you."
― Dave Ramsey

QUOTE: "While money can't buy happiness, it certainly lets you choose your own form of misery."
― Groucho Marx

QUOTE: "Money may not buy happiness, but I'd rather cry in a Jaguar than on a bus."
― Françoise Sagan

QUOTE: "You can be young without money, but you can't be old without it."
― Tennessee Williams

QUOTE: "The money you make is a symbol of the value you create."
― Idowu Koyenikan, Wealth for All: Living a Life of Success at the Edge of Your Ability

QUOTE: "If you say that getting the money is the most important thing, you'll spend your life completely wasting your time. You'll be doing things you don't like doing in order to go on living, that is to go on doing thing you don't like doing, which is stupid."
― Alan Watts

QUOTE: "People who advocate simplicity have money in the bank; the money came first, not the simplicity."
― Douglas Coupland, The Gum Thief

SUBTOPIC: Sales

QUOTE: "Pretend that every single person you meet has a sign around his or her neck that says, ‘Make me feel important.’ Not only will you succeed in sales, you will succeed in life."
― Mary Kay Ash

QUOTE: "Most people think ‘selling’ is the same as ‘talking’. But the most effective salespeople know that listening is the most important part of their job."
― Roy Bartell

QUOTE: "You can have everything in life you want, if you will just help enough other people get what they want."
― Zig Ziglar

QUOTE: "The secret of man’s success resides in his insight into the moods of people, and his tact in dealing with them."
― J. G. Holland

QUOTE: "Everyone lives by selling something."
― Robert Louis Stevenson

QUOTE: "I have never worked a day in my life without selling. If I believe in something, I sell it, and I sell it hard."
― Estée Lauder

QUOTE: "Always be closing…That doesn’t mean you’re always closing the deal, but it does mean that you need to be always closing on the next step in the process."
― Shane Gibson

QUOTE: "I like to think of sales as the ability to gracefully persuade, not manipulate, a person or persons into a win-win situation."
― Bo Bennett

QUOTE: "Salespeople move an economy of a nation. Someone could have invented the most amazing invention that is going to be a revolution for a planet, but that product goes nowhere unless someone sells it to someone else."
― Michael Delaware, The Art of Sales Management: Lessons Learned on the Fly

QUOTE: "Approach each customer with the idea of helping him or her to solve a problem or achieve a goal, not of selling a product or service."
― Brian Tracy

SUBTOPIC: Wealth

QUOTE: "Wealth is not without its advantages and the case to the contrary, although it has often been made, has never proved widely persuasive."
― John Kenneth Galbraith, The Affluent Society

QUOTE: "Not money, bot skills, but time is the biggest lever for massive wealth creation."
― Manoj Arora, The Autobiography of a Stock

QUOTE: "Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants."
― Epictetus

QUOTE: "Wealth is the ability to fully experience life."
― Henry David Thoreau

QUOTE: "Being rich is not about how much money you have or how many homes you own; it's the freedom to buy any book you want without looking at the price and wondering if you can afford it."
― John Waters, Role Models

QUOTE: "A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone."
― Henry David Thoreau, Walden

QUOTE: "Fortune sides with him who dares."
― Virgil

QUOTE: "Seek not greater wealth, but simpler pleasure; not higher fortune, but deeper felicity."
― Mahatma Ghandi

QUOTE: "Those born to wealth, and who have the means of gratifying every wish, know not what is the real happiness of life, just as those who have been tossed on the stormy waters of the ocean on a few frail planks can alone realize the blessings of fair weather."
― Alexandre Dumas, The Count of Monte Cristo

QUOTE: "Wealth is the slave of a wise man. The master of a fool."
― Seneca, Moral Essays: Volume I De Providentia. De Constantia. De Ira. De Clementia

QUOTE: "No wealth can ever make a bad man at peace with himself."
― Plato

QUOTE: "If we command our wealth, we shall be rich and free. If our wealth commands us, we are poor indeed."
― Edmund Burke

MAINTOPIC: Computer Science

SUBTOPIC: Algorithms

QUOTE: "Algorithms are not arbiters of objective truth and fairness simply because they're math."
― Zoe Quinn, Crash Override: How Gamergate (Nearly) Destroyed My Life, and How We Can Win the Fight Against Online Hate

QUOTE: "We can use algorithms as an aid to the systems of our society, like pilots use autopilot, but we must never let them run our society completely on their own - the day we do, will be the day we fall."
― Abhijit Naskar, The Gospel of Technology

QUOTE: "Although greed is considered one of the seven deadly sins, it turns out that greedy algorithms often perform quite well."
― Stuart Russell, Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach

QUOTE: "In algorithms, as in life, persistence usually pays off."
― Steven S. Skiena, The Algorithm Design Manual

QUOTE: "Perhaps the most important principle for the good algorithm designer is to refuse to be content."
― Alfred V. Aho

QUOTE: "The idea that humans will always have a unique ability beyond the reach of non-conscious algorithms is just wishful thinking. The current scientific answer to this pipe dream can be summarised in three simple principles: 1. Organisms are algorithms. Every animal – including Homo sapiens – is an assemblage of organic algorithms shaped by natural selection over millions of years of evolution. 2. Algorithmic calculations are not affected by the materials from which you build the calculator. Whether you build an abacus from wood, iron or plastic, two beads plus two beads equals four beads. 3. Hence there is no reason to think that organic algorithms can do things that non-organic algorithms will never be able to replicate or surpass. As long as the calculations remain valid, what does it matter whether the algorithms are manifested in carbon or silicon?"
― Yuval Noah Harari, Homo Deus: A History of Tomorrow

QUOTE: "The crucial problem isn’t creating new jobs. The crucial problem is creating new jobs that humans perform better than algorithms"
― Yuval Noah Harari, Homo Deus: A History of Tomorrow

QUOTE: "I spend quite a lot of time thinking about how curated our information is. What we watch, what we read, what we buy, often who we talk to, is all shaped and influenced by some kind of a mathematical algorithm."
― Hannah Fry

QUOTE: "The development of an organism ... may be considered as the execution of a 'developmental program' present in the fertilized egg. ... A central task of developmental biology is to discover the underlying algorithm from the course of development."
― Aristid Lindenmayer

QUOTE: "The algorithms that orchestrate our ads are starting to orchestrate our lives."
― Eli Pariser

SUBTOPIC: Artificial Intelligence 

QUOTE: "If a machine ever gains awareness, it will be not due to our careful programming, but due to an unforeseeable anomaly."
― Abhijit Naskar, The Gospel of Technology

QUOTE: "I believe that at the end of the century the use of words and general educated opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines thinking without expecting to be contradicted."
― Alan Turing, Computing machinery and intelligence

QUOTE: "How ironic, then, and how poetic, that humankind may have created the Creator out of want for one. Man creates God, who then creates man. Is that not the perfect circle of life? But then, if that turns out to be the case, who is created in whose image?"
― Neal Shusterman, Thunderhead

QUOTE: "A powerful AI system tasked with ensuring your safety might imprison you at home. If you asked for happiness, it might hook you up to a life support and ceaselessly stimulate your brain's pleasure centers. If you don't provide the AI with a very big library of preferred behaviors or an ironclad means for it to deduce what behavior you prefer, you'll be stuck with whatever it comes up with. And since it's a highly complex system, you may never understand it well enough to make sure you've got it right."
― James Barrat, Our Final Invention: Artificial Intelligence and the End of the Human Era

QUOTE: "Humans are limited in the attention, kindness and compassion that they can expend to others, but AI based compassionate robots can channel virtually unlimited resources into building compassionate relationships in the society."
― Amit Ray, Compassionate Artificial Intelligence: Frameworks and Algorithms

QUOTE: "If an AI possessed any one of these skills—social abilities, technological development, economic ability—at a superhuman level, it is quite likely that it would quickly come to dominate our world in one way or another. And as we’ve seen, if it ever developed these abilities to the human level, then it would likely soon develop them to a superhuman level. So we can assume that if even one of these skills gets programmed into a computer, then our world will come to be dominated by AIs or AI-empowered humans."
― Stuart Armstrong, Smarter Than Us: The Rise of Machine Intelligence

QUOTE: "Cannot you see, cannot all you lecturers see, that it is we that are dying, and that down here the only thing that really lives is the Machine? We created the Machine, to do our will, but we cannot make it do our will now. It has robbed us of the sense of space and of the sense of touch, it has blurred every human relation and narrowed down love to a carnal act, it has paralysed our bodies and our wills, and now it compels us to worship it. The Machine develops — but not on our lines. The Machine proceeds — but not to our goal. We only exist as the blood corpuscles that course through its arteries, and if it could work without us, it would let us die."
― E.M. Forster, The Machine Stops

QUOTE: "A doctor, lawyer, accountant, dentist, or pharmacist will go through years of training and then do the same thing over and over again in slightly different variations. Much of the training is to socialize us into people who can sit still for long periods and behave and operate consistently and reliably....Basically, we are being trained and prepped to become more like machines. But we'll never be as good as the real thing."
― Andrew Yang

QUOTE: "The Absolute Ignorance of evolution by natural selection is indeed capable of creating not just daisies and fish but also human beings who in turn have the competence to build cities and theories and poems and airplanes, and computers, which in turn could in principle achieve Artificial Intelligence with even higher levels of creative skill than their human creators."
― Daniel C. Dennett, From Bacteria to Bach and Back: The Evolution of Minds

QUOTE: "The only limit to AI is human imagination."
― Chris Duffey, Superhuman Innovation: Transforming Business with Artificial Intelligence

QUOTE: "When fervent human curiosity is abandoned to the power of AI, the intrinsic executive function, cognitive control, interrogation, and discord will rapidly weaken to the surrender of the narrative/reality created by AI."
― Tamie M. Santiago

QUOTE: "Let an ultraintelligent machine be defined as a machine that can far surpass all the intellectual activities of any man however clever. Since the design of machines is one of these intellectual activities, an ultraintelligent machine could design even better machines; there would then unquestionably be an ‘intelligence explosion,’ and the intelligence of man would be left far behind. Thus the first ultraintelligent machine is the last invention that man need ever make, provided that the machine is docile enough to tell us how to keep it under control."
― Nick Bostrom, Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies

QUOTE: "The human condition is plagued with a labyrinth of shortcomings, frailties and limitations that hinder man from reaching his fullest potential. Therefore, it only makes sense that we find ourselves at the next phase in human evolution where restricted man merges with the infinite possibilities of hyper-evolving technologies. This techno-human transmutation will prove to be ‘the’ quantum leap in human progression. The harmonization of technologically extending oneself, consciousness, artificial intelligence and machine learning will reverse the failures of genetic predisposition and limitation."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "AI is the transformer of civilization."
― Toba Beta

QUOTE: "We should therefore welcome with open arms computers that are vastly more powerful than our brains, safe in the knowledge that our job is exponentially easier than theirs. They have to solve the problems; we just have to check that they did so to our satisfaction. AIs will think fast what we think slow, and the world will be the better for it. I, for one, welcome our new robot underlings."
― Pedro Domingos, The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World

QUOTE: "The real question is not whether machines think but whether men do. The mystery which surrounds a thinking machine already surrounds a thinking man."
― B.F. Skinner, Contingencies Of Reinforcement: A Theoretical Analysis

QUOTE: "I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, I’d probably say that. So we need to be very careful."
— Elon Musk

QUOTE: "The AI does not hate you, nor does it love you, but you are made out of atoms which it can use for something else."
― Eliezer Yudkowsky

SUBTOPIC: Big Data

QUOTE: "The greatest danger of Big data and Artificial Intelligence is robots and bots will track you and manipulate you in every step."
― Garry Kasparov, Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins

QUOTE: "Unlike oil, Big Data’s reserves are growing exponentially every year."
― Khang Kijarro Nguyen

QUOTE: "And yet Rebecca felt that it was hard to tell whether the secret algorithms of Big Data did not so much reveal you to yourself as they tried to dictate to you what you were to be. To accept that the machines knew you better than you knew yourself involved a kind of silent assent: you liked the things Big Data told you you were likely to like, and you loved the people it said you were likely to love. To believe entirely in the data entailed a slight diminishment of the self, small but crucial and, perhaps, irreversible."
― Dexter Palmer, Version Control

QUOTE: "There were 5 exabytes of information created between the dawn of civilization through 2003, but that much information is now created every 2 days."
― Eric Schmidt, Executive Chairman of Google

QUOTE: "The most valuable commodity I know of is information."
― Gordon Gekko

QUOTE: "Hiding within those mounds of data is knowledge that could change the life of a patient, or change the world."
― Atul Butte, Stanford

QUOTE: "Information is the oil of the 21st century, and analytics is the combustion engine."
― Peter Sondergaard, Senior Vice President, Gartner

QUOTE: "War is 90% information."
― Napoleon Bonaparte

SUBTOPIC: Computation

QUOTE: "There is no physical law precluding particles from being organised in ways that perform even more advanced computations than the arrangements of particles in human brains."
― Stephen Hawking

QUOTE: "The desire to economize time and mental effort in arithmetical computations, and to eliminate human liability to error is probably as old as the science of arithmetic itself."
― Howard Aiken

QUOTE: "It will take time for the idea of decentralized trust through computation to become a part of mainstream consciousness, and until then, the idea creates cognitive dissonance for those accustomed to centralized trust systems."
― Andreas Antonopoulos

QUOTE: "All physical systems can be thought of as registering and processing information, and how one wishes to define computation will determine your view of what computation consists of."
― Seth Lloyd

QUOTE: "Computations are everywhere, once you begin to look at things in a certain way."
― Rudy Rucker

QUOTE: "I have not proved that the universe is, in fact, a digital computer and that it's capable of performing universal computation, but it's plausible that it is."
― Seth Lloyd

QUOTE: "If we suppose that many natural phenomena are in effect computations, the study of computer science can tell us about the kinds of natural phenomena that can occur."
― Rudy Rucker

QUOTE: "We're presently in the midst of a third intellectual revolution. The first came with Newton: the planets obey physical laws. The second came with Darwin: biology obeys genetic laws. In today’s third revolution, we are coming to realize that even minds and societies emerge from interacting laws that can be regarded as computations. Everything is a computation."
― Rudy Rucker

QUOTE: "It's always seemed like a big mystery how nature, seemingly so effortlessly, manages to produce so much that seems to us so complex. Well, I think we found its secret. It's just sampling what's out there in the computational universe."
― Stephen Wolfram

QUOTE: "The most extensive computation known has been conducted over the last billion years on a planet -wide scale: it is the evolution of life. The power of this computation is illustrated by the complexity and beauty of its crowning achievement, the human brain."
— David Roger, in Psychobabble: Exploding the myths of the self-help generation, p.8

QUOTE: "Computer Science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes."
― Edsger Wybe Dijkstra

SUBTOPIC: Cybersecurity

QUOTE: "This next president is going to inherit the most sophisticated and persistent cyber espionage cultures the world has ever seen, He needs to surround himself with experts that can expedite the allocation of potent layers of next generation defenses around our targeted critical infrastructure silos."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "It takes 20 years to build a reputation and a few minutes of cyber-incident to ruin it."
― Stephane Nappo

QUOTE: "We’re talking about the fate of our economy and the questionable resiliency of our Nation’s critical infrastructure. Why are experts so polite, patient, and forgiving when talking about cybersecurity and National Security? The drama of each script kiddie botnet attack and Nation State pilfering of our IP has been turned into a soap opera through press releases, sound bites and enforced absurdity of mainstream media. It’s time for a cybersecurity zeitgeist in the West where cyber hygiene is a meme that is aggressively distributed by those who have mastered it and encouraged to be imitated by those who have experienced it."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "One of the main cyber-risks is to think they don’t exist. The other is to try to treat all potential risks.
 Fix the basics, protect first what matters for your business and be ready to react properly to pertinent threats. Think data, but also business services integrity, awareness, customer experience, compliance, and reputation."
― Stephane Nappo

QUOTE: "Digital freedom stops where that of users begins... Nowadays, digital evolution must no longer be offered to a customer in the trade-off between privacy and security. Privacy is not for sale, it's a valuable asset to protect."
― Stephane Nappo

QUOTE: "Ransomware is more about manipulating vulnerabilities in human psychology than the adversary's technological sophistication."
― James Scott, Sr. Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "Your ideas are bound to forces of which you have no control due to the fact that you've voluntarily submitted your freedom of thought to the perception steering censorship of Google, Facebook and other dragnet surveillance capitalists."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "The gaping wound in America’s national security is without a doubt, the unregulated dragnet surveillance capitalists."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "The fantastic advances in the field of electronic communication constitute a greater danger to the privacy of the individual."
― Earl Warren

SUBTOPIC: Simulation

QUOTE: "The media represents a world that is more real than reality that we can experience. People lose the ability to distinguish between reality and fantasy. They also begin to engage with the fantasy without realizing what it really is.
 They seek happiness and fulfilment through the simulacra of reality, e.g. media and avoid the contact/interaction with the real world."
― Jean Baudrillard, Simulacra and Simulation

QUOTE: "How do we know that even the realest of realities wouldn't be subjective, in the final analysis? Nobody can prove his existence, can he?"
― Daniel F. Galouye, Simulacron 3

QUOTE: "Computer simulation often works fine if we assume nothing more than Newton’s laws at the atomic scale, even though we know that really we should be using quantum, not classical, mechanics at that level. But sometimes approximating the behaviour of atoms as though they were classical billiard-ball particles isn’t sufficient. We really do need to take quantum behaviour into account to accurately model chemical reactions involved in industrial catalysis or drug action, say. We can do that by solving the Schrödinger equation for the particles, but only approximately: we need to make lots of simplifications if the maths is to be tractable. But what if we had a computer that itself works by the laws of quantum mechanics? Then the sort of behaviour you’re trying to simulate is built into the very way the machine operates: it is hardwired into the fabric. This was the point Feynman made in his article. But no such machines existed. At any rate they would, as he pointed out with wry understatement, be ‘machines of a different kind’ from any computer built so far. Feynman didn’t work out the full theory of what such a machine would look like or how it would work – but he insisted that ‘if you want to make a simulation of nature, you’d better make it quantum-mechanical’."
― Philip Ball, Beyond Weird

QUOTE: "The most important application of quantum computing in the future is likely to be a computer simulation of quantum systems, because that's an application where we know for sure that quantum systems in general cannot be efficiently simulated on a classical computer."
― David Deutsch

QUOTE: "If you assume any rate of improvement at all, games will eventually be indistinguishable from reality, [...] we’re most likely in a simulation."
― Elon Musk

QUOTE: "Is the universe holographic? Probably. Get microscopic enough and you start seeing pixels. I don’t know about you, but that makes me laugh. Until I think about how easy it is to hack a program. Any program."
― Steven Erikson, Rejoice

QUOTE: "It might not be immediately obvious to some readers why the ability to perform 10^85 computational operations is a big deal. So it's useful to put it in context. [I]t may take about 10^31-10^44 operations to simulate all neuronal operations that have occurred in the history of life on Earth. Alternatively, let us suppose that the computers are used to run human whole brain emulations that live rich and happy lives while interacting with one another in virtual environments. A typical estimate of the computational requirements for running one emulation is 10^18 operations per second. To run an emulation for 100 subjective years would then require some 10^27 operations. This would mean that at least 10^58 human lives could be created in emulation even with quite conservative assumptions about the efficiency of computronium. In other words, assuming that the observable universe is void of extraterrestrial civilizations, then what hangs in the balance is at least [over octodecillion] human lives. If we represent all the happiness experienced during one entire such life with a single teardrop of joy, then the happiness of these souls could fill and refill the Earth's oceans every second, and keep doing so for a hundred billion billion millennia. It is really important that we make sure these truly are tears of joy."
― Nick Bostrom, Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies

QUOTE: "Simulating the behavior of 100 billion neurons in the human brain is not feasible by classical computer but quantum machine learning promises to fulfill that requirement."
― Amit Ray, Quantum Computing Algorithms for Artificial Intelligence

SUBTOPIC: Machine Learning / Deep Learning

QUOTE: "The relationship between humans and machines is better imagined as a partnership with machines employed to do work too repetitive or rudimentary for human intelligence, too dangerous for human well-being or too complex for human time. Human capability, on the other hand, has always excelled at fashioning such machines, creating meaning from the unfamiliar and in imaginative pursuits. In such an arrangement, technology does replace human effort, but only in areas where human effort is sub-optimal."
― Gyan Nagpal, The Future Ready Organization: How Dynamic Capability Management Is Reshaping the Modern Workplace

QUOTE: "As one Google Translate engineer put it, ‘when you go from 10,000 training examples to 10 billion training examples, it all starts to work. Data trumps everything.’"
― Garry Kasparov, Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins

QUOTE: "One of the most important problems in machine learning—and life—is the exploration-exploitation dilemma. If you’ve found something that works, should you just keep doing it? Or is it better to try new things, knowing it could be a waste of time but also might lead to a better solution? Would you rather be a cowboy or a farmer? Start a company or run an existing one? Go steady or play the field? A midlife crisis is the yearning to explore after many years spent exploiting."
― Pedro Domingos, The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World

QUOTE: "A breakthrough in machine learning would be worth ten Microsofts."
― Bill Gates

QUOTE: "When you apply computer science and machine learning to areas that haven't had any innovation in 50 years, you can make rapid advances that seem really incredible."
― Bill Maris

QUOTE: "A baby learns to crawl, walk and then run.  We are in the crawling stage when it comes to applying machine learning."
― Dave Waters

QUOTE: "Artificial Intelligence, deep learning, machine learning  -  whatever you’re doing if you don’t understand it  -  learn it. Because otherwise you’re going to be a dinosaur within 3 years."
― Mark Cuban

SUBTOPIC: Programming

QUOTE: "The best programs are written so that computing machines can perform them quickly and so that human beings can understand them clearly. A programmer is ideally an essayist who works with traditional aesthetic and literary forms as well as mathematical concepts, to communicate the way that an algorithm works and to convince a reader that the results will be correct."
― Donald Knuth

QUOTE: "Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live."
― John Woods

QUOTE: "Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand."
― Martin Fowler

QUOTE: "Give a man a program, frustrate him for a day.
 Teach a man to program, frustrate him for a lifetime."
― Muhammad Waseem

QUOTE: "The most disastrous thing that you can ever learn is your first programming language."
― Alan Kay

QUOTE: "The computer programmer is a creator of universes for which he alone is the lawgiver. No playwright, no stage director, no emperor, however powerful, has ever exercised such absolute authority to arrange a stage or field of battle and to command such unswervingly dutiful actors or troops."
― Joseph Weizenbaum

QUOTE: "What kind of programmer is so divorced from reality that she thinks she'll get complex software right the first time?"
― James Alan Gardner, Ascending

QUOTE: "Take time to learn the closest thing that we have to a SUPERPOWER - Code."
― Sharen Eddings

QUOTE: "If you can write ‘hello world’ you can change the world."
― Raghu Venkatesh

QUOTE: "Programming isn't about what you know; it's about what you can figure out."
― Chris Pine, Learn to Program

QUOTE: "Programming is the breaking of one big impossible task into several very small possible tasks."
― Jazzwant

SUBTOPIC: Robotics 

QUOTE: "The Three Laws of Robotics:
 1: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction,allow a human being to come to harm;
 2: A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law;
 3: A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law;
 The Zeroth Law: A robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm."
― Isaac Asimov, I, Robot

QUOTE: "Whether we are based on carbon or on silicon makes no fundamental difference; we should each be treated with appropriate respect."
― Arthur C. Clarke, 2010: Odyssey Two

QUOTE: "Why give a robot an order to obey orders—why aren't the original orders enough? Why command a robot not to do harm—wouldn't it be easier never to command it to do harm in the first place? Does the universe contain a mysterious force pulling entities toward malevolence, so that a positronic brain must be programmed to withstand it? Do intelligent beings inevitably develop an attitude problem? (…) Now that computers really have become smarter and more powerful, the anxiety has waned. Today's ubiquitous, networked computers have an unprecedented ability to do mischief should they ever go to the bad. But the only mayhem comes from unpredictable chaos or from human malice in the form of viruses. We no longer worry about electronic serial killers or subversive silicon cabals because we are beginning to appreciate that malevolence—like vision, motor coordination, and common sense—does not come free with computation but has to be programmed in. (…) Aggression, like every other part of human behavior we take for granted, is a challenging engineering problem!"
― Steven Pinker, How the Mind Works

QUOTE: "The world of the future will be an even more demanding struggle against the limitations of our intelligence, not a comfortable hammock in which we can lie down to be waited upon by our robot slaves."
― Norbert Wiener, The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Society

QUOTE: "You just can't differentiate between a robot and the very best of humans."
― Isaac Asimov, I, Robot

QUOTE: "’Though I may have been constructed,’ he said, ‘so too were you. I in a factory; you in a womb. Neither of us asked for this, but we were given it. Self-awareness is a gift. And it is a gift no thinking thing has any right to deny another. No thinking thing should be another thing's property, to be turned on and off when it is convenient.’"
― C. Robert Cargill, Sea of Rust

QUOTE: "It doesn’t matter whether there’s blood in your veins or hydraulic fluid, it’s everyone’s right to be free."
― W.H. Mitchell, The Arks of Andromeda

QUOTE: "Fears of robotics and technology arise, I think, from two human frailties. One is cognitive: we simply do not know what ­future technological change ­will be and thus cannot tell what new jobs will be created, what our ­future needs ­will be, or how raw materials ­will be used. The second is psychological: we get a thrill from fear of the unknown—in this case, the scary and yet alluring prospect of metallic robots replacing flesh-­and-­blood workers on the factory floor."
― Branko Milanović, Capitalism, Alone: The Future of the System That Rules the World

QUOTE: "There are an endless number of things to discover about robotics. A lot of it is just too fantastic for people to believe."
― Daniel H. Wilson

SUBTOPIC: Software Development

QUOTE: "In the end, it all comes down to 0 and 1."
― Vineet Goel

QUOTE: "This is what makes them good engineers. Perfectionism: incinerating perfectionism."
― Ellen Ullman, The Bug

QUOTE: "Einstein repeatedly argued that there must be simplified explanations of nature, because God is not capricious or arbitrary. No such faith comforts the software engineer."
― Frederick P. Brooks Jr., The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering

QUOTE: "Computers themselves, and software yet to be developed, will revolutionize the way we learn."
― Steve Jobs

QUOTE: "The truth of Moore's law has made remarkable things possible. On the software side, I think natural user interfaces in all their forms are equally significant."
― Bill Gates

QUOTE: "My own theory is that we are in the middle of a dramatic and broad technological and economic shift in which software companies are poised to take over large swathes of the economy."
― Marc Andreessen

QUOTE: "Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves."
― Alan Kay

QUOTE: "Software is like entropy. It is difficult to grasp, weighs nothing, and obeys the second law of thermodynamics; i.e. it always increases."
― Norman Ralph Augustine

MAINTOPIC: Government / Law / Politics

SUBTOPIC: Civil Rights

QUOTE: "If the events of September 11, 2001, have proven anything, it's that the terrorists can attack us, but they can't take away what makes us American -- our freedom, our liberty, our civil rights. No, only Attorney General John Ashcroft can do that."
― Jon Stewart

QUOTE: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers."
― United Nations, Universal Declaration of Human Rights

QUOTE: "The amount of money and of legal energy being given to prosecute hundreds of thousands of Americans who are caught with a few ounces of marijuana in their jeans simply makes no sense - the kindest way to put it. A sterner way to put it is that it is an outrage, an imposition on basic civil liberties and on the reasonable expenditure of social energy."
― William F. Buckley

QUOTE: "You have to remember, rights don't come in groups we shouldn't have 'gay rights'; rights come as individuals, and we wouldn't have this major debate going on. It would be behavior that would count, not what person belongs to what group."
― Ron Paul

QUOTE: "Experience should teach us to be most on our guard to protect liberty when the government's purposes are beneficent. Men born to freedom are naturally alert to repel invasion of their liberty by evil-minded rulers. The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but without understanding."
― Louis D. Brandeis [Olmstead v. U.S., 277 U.S. 438 (1928) (dissenting)]

QUOTE: "A state of war is not a blank check for the president when it comes to the rights of the nation's citizens."
― Sandra Day O'Connor

QUOTE: "Civil disobedience is not our problem. Our problem is civil obedience."
― Howard Zinn

QUOTE: "One has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws."
― Martin Luther King, Jr., Letter from Birmingham Jail

QUOTE: "Never be content to sit back and watch as others' rights are trampled upon. Your rights could be next."
― DaShanne Stokes

SUBTOPIC: Constitution / Bill of Rights

QUOTE: "A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed."
― James Madison, The Constitution of the United States of America

QUOTE: "Nowhere in the Bill of Rights are the words ‘unless inconvenient’ to be found."
― A.E. Samaan

QUOTE: "The Bill of Rights is the United States. The United States is the Bill of Rights. Compromise the Bill of Rights and you dissolve the very foundation upon which the Union stands."
― A.E. Samaan

QUOTE: "The Bill of Rights wasn’t enacted to give us any rights. It was enacted so the Government could not take away from us any rights that we already had."
― Kenneth G. Eade, A Patriot's Act

QUOTE: "Don't interfere with anything in the Constitution. That must be maintained, for it is the only safeguard of our liberties."
― Abraham Lincoln

QUOTE: "The strength of the Constitution lies entirely in the determination of each citizen to defend it. Only if every single citizen feels duty bound to do his share in this defense are the constitutional rights secure."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "We the people are the rightful masters of both Congress and the courts, not to overthrow the Constitution but to overthrow the men who pervert the Constitution."
― Abraham Lincoln

QUOTE: "Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of production and trade..."
― Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged

QUOTE: "The Constitution is colorblind, and neither knows nor tolerates classes among citizens."
― John Marshall

SUBTOPIC: Criminal Law / Criminal Justice

QUOTE: "No one should ever be wrongfully deprived of their rights to liberty and freedom without just cause, yet in the past 25 years alone thousands of people have been wrongfully convicted and sentenced to tens of thousands of years in prison."
― Bernard B. Kerik, From Jailer to Jailed: My Journey from Correction and Police Commissioner to Inmate #84888-054

QUOTE: "Providing adequate representation even for defendants who appear guilty is the best way to protect those who are not."
― Deborah L Rhode

QUOTE: "Many critics complain that the criminal justice system is heavy-handed and unfair to minorities. We hear a great deal about capital punishment, excessively punitive drug laws, supposed misuse of eyewitness evidence, troublingly high levels of black male incarceration, and so forth.
 So to assert that black Americans suffer from too little application of the law, not too much, seems at odds with common perception. But the perceived harshness of American criminal justice and its fundamental weakness are in reality two sides of a coin, the former a kind of poor compensation for the latter. Like the schoolyard bully, our criminal justice system harasses people on small pretexts but is exposed as a coward before murder. It hauls masses of black men through its machinery but fails to protect them from bodily injury and death. It is at once oppressive and inadequate."
― Jill Leovy

QUOTE: "Every criminal has a good mind conquered by the devil."
― Munia Khan

QUOTE: "’You know what my father said about innocent clients? ... He said the scariest client a lawyer will ever have is an innocent client. Because if you fuck up and he goes to prison, it'll scar you for life ... He said there is no in-between with an innocent client. No negotiation, no plea bargain, no middle ground. There's only one verdict. You have to put an NG up on the scoreboard. There's no other verdict but not guilty.’
 Levin nodded thoughtfully.
 ‘The bottom line was my old man was a damn good lawyer and he didn't like having innocent clients,’ I said. ‘I'm not sure I do, either.’"
― Michael Connelly, The Lincoln Lawyer

QUOTE: "The purpose of criminal law is to punish the enemies of those in power."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "There is no law in the world - there is no law unwritten, there's no law on the books - that's gonna stop a criminal from getting a gun."
― Rush Limbaugh

QUOTE: "One of the tests of the civilization of people is the treatment of its criminals."
― Rutherford B. Hayes

SUBTOPIC: Education

QUOTE: "Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever."
― Mahatma Gandhi

QUOTE: "I have never let my schooling interfere with my education."
― Mark Twain

QUOTE: "Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."
― Nelson Mandela

QUOTE: "Children must be taught how to think, not what to think."
― Margaret Mead

QUOTE: "The mind once enlightened cannot again become dark."
― Thomas Paine, A Letter Addressed to the Abbe Raynal on the Affairs of North America

QUOTE: "Do not train a child to learn by force or harshness; but direct them to it by what amuses their minds, so that you may be better able to discover with accuracy the peculiar bent of the genius of each."
― Plato

QUOTE: "Self-education is, I firmly believe, the only kind of education there is."
― Isaac Asimov

QUOTE: "The educated differ from the uneducated as much as the living differ from the dead."
― Aristotle

QUOTE: "Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young."
― Henry Ford

QUOTE: "The man who reads nothing at all is better educated than the man who reads nothing but newspapers."
― Thomas Jefferson

QUOTE: "Education consists mainly of what we have unlearned."
― Mark Twain, Notebook

QUOTE: "The highest activity a human being can attain is learning for understanding, because to understand is to be free."
― Baruch Spinoza

QUOTE: "I regret that I didn’t realize that actually they’ve got no power over you at school — it’s all just a trick to indoctrinate you into being a conditioned, tame, placid citizen. Rebel, children, I urge you, fight the turgid slick of conformity with which they seek to smother your glory."
― Russell Brand, My Booky Wook

QUOTE: "I can see a day soon where you'll create your own college degree by taking the best online courses from the best professors from around the world - some computing from Stanford, some entrepreneurship from Wharton, some ethics from Brandeis, some literature from Edinburgh - paying only the nominal fee for the certificates of completion."
― Thomas Friedman

SUBTOPIC: Freedom

QUOTE: "Probably it is true enough that the great majority are rarely capable of thinking independently, that on most questions they accept views which they find ready-made, and that they will be equally content if born or coaxed into one set of beliefs or another. In any society freedom of thought will probably be of direct significance only for a small minority. But this does not mean that anyone is competent, or ought to have power, to select those to whom this freedom is to be reserved. It certainly does not justify the presumption of any group of people to claim the right to determine what people ought to think or believe."
― Friedrich August von Hayek, The Road to Serfdom

QUOTE: "The freedom to swing your fist ends at my nose."
― Mercedes Lackey, Sacred Ground

QUOTE: "Oppressed people cannot remain oppressed forever. The yearning for freedom eventually manifests itself."
― Martin Luther King Jr., Letter from Birmingham Jail

QUOTE: "I love my country, not my government."
― Jesse Ventura

QUOTE: "There is no greater tyranny than that which is perpetrated under the shield of the law and in the name of justice."
― Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de la Brède et de Montesquieu, The Spirit of the Laws

QUOTE: "Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and under the rule of a just God, cannot long retain it."
― Abraham Lincoln

QUOTE: "Between stimulus and response there is a space. In that space is our power to choose our response. In our response lies our growth and our freedom."
― Viktor E. Frankl

QUOTE: "Some birds are not meant to be caged, that's all. Their feathers are too bright, their songs too sweet and wild. So you let them go, or when you open the cage to feed them they somehow fly out past you. And the part of you that knows it was wrong to imprison them in the first place rejoices, but still, the place where you live is that much more drab and empty for their departure."
― Stephen King, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption: A Story from Different Seasons

QUOTE: "When a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw."
― Nelson Mandela

QUOTE: "Better to die fighting for freedom then be a prisoner all the days of your life."
― Bob Marley

QUOTE: "True freedom is impossible without a mind made free by discipline."
― Mortimer J. Adler, How to Read a Book: The Classic Guide to Intelligent Reading

QUOTE: "A man can be himself only so long as he is alone; and if he does not love solitude, he will not love freedom; for it is only when he is alone that he is really free."
― Arthur Schopenhauer, Essays and Aphorisms

QUOTE: "Disobedience is the true foundation of liberty. The obedient must be slaves."
― Henry David Thoreau

QUOTE: "Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety."
― Benjamin Franklin

QUOTE: "a knowledgeable man is a free man, or at least a man who longs for freedom."
― Trevor Noah, Born a Crime: Stories From a South African Childhood

QUOTE: "O’Brien leaned over him, deliberately bringing the worn face nearer. You are thinking, he said, that my face is old and tired. You are thinking that I talk of power, and yet I am not even able to prevent the decay of my own body. Can you not understand, Winston, that the individual is only a cell? The weariness of the cell is the vigour of the organism. Do you die when you cut your fingernails? We are priests of power, he said. God is power. But at present power is only a word so far as you are concerned. It is time for you to gather some idea of what power means. The first thing you must realise is that power is collective. The individual only has power in so far as he ceases to be an individual. You know the Party slogan: ‘Freedom is slavery’. Has it ever occurred to you that it is reversible? Slavery is freedom. Alone – free- the human being is always defeated. It must be so, because every human being is doomed to die, which is the greatest of all failures. But if he can make complete, utter submission, if he can escape from his identity, if he can merge himself in the Party so that he is the Party, then he is all-powerful and immortal. The second thing for you to realise is that power is power over human beings. Over the body – but, above all, over the mind. Power over matter – external reality, as you would call it – is not important. Already our control over matter is absolute….But how can you control matter? He burst out. You don’t even control the climate or the law of gravity. And there are disease, pain, death- O’Brien silenced him by a movement of the hand. We control matter because we control the mind. Reality is inside the skull. You will learn by degrees, Winston….But the world itself is only a speck of dust. And man is tiny-helpless! How long has he been in existence? For millions of years the earth was uninhabited…Nonsense. The earth is as old as we are, no older. How could it be older? Nothing exists except through human consciousness…"
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "Arguing that you don't care about the right to privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about free speech because you have nothing to say."
― Edward Snowden

SUBTOPIC: Military / War

QUOTE: "Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed. This world in arms is not spending money alone. It is spending the sweat of its laborers, the genius of its scientists, the hopes of its children. This is not a way of life at all in any true sense. Under the clouds of war, it is humanity hanging on a cross of iron."
― Dwight D. Eisenhower

QUOTE: "A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual doom."
― Martin Luther King Jr.

QUOTE: "Whoever said the pen is mightier than the sword obviously never encountered automatic weapons."
― Douglas MacArthur

QUOTE: "Lead me, follow me, or get the hell out of my way."
― George S. Patton Jr., Patton Principles

QUOTE: "This topic brings me to that worst outcrop of herd life, the military system, which I abhor... This plague-spot of civilization ought to be abolished with all possible speed. Heroism on command, senseless violence, and all the loathsome nonsense that goes by the name of patriotism -- how passionately I hate them!"
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "The military doesn't start wars. Politicians start wars."
― William Westmoreland

QUOTE: "I am concerned for the security of our great Nation; not so much because of any treat from without, but because of the insidious forces working from within."
― Douglas MacArthur

QUOTE: "War is not just the shower of bullets and bombs from both sides, it is also the shower of blood and bones on both sides."
― Amit Kalantri, Wealth of Words

QUOTE: "He who joyfully marches to music rank and file has already earned my contempt. He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would surely suffice. This disgrace to civilization should be done away with at once. Heroism at command, senseless brutality, deplorable love-of-country stance and all the loathsome nonsense that goes by the name of patriotism, how violently I hate all this, how despicable and ignoble war is; I would rather be torn to shreds than be part of so base an action! It is my conviction that killing under the cloak of war is nothing but an act of murder."
― Albert Einstein

SUBTOPIC: Quotes from Presidents

QUOTE: "If freedom of speech is taken away, then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the slaughter."
― George Washington

QUOTE: "Any man worth his salt will stick up for what he believes right, but it takes a slightly better man to acknowledge instantly and without reservation that he is in error."
― Andrew Jackson

QUOTE: "It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life, we get nothing save by effort."
― Theodore Roosevelt

QUOTE: "A man is not finished when he is defeated. He is finished when he quits."
― Richard Nixon

QUOTE: "Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude."
― Thomas Jefferson

QUOTE: "We must dare to be great; and we must realize that greatness is the fruit of toil and sacrifice and high courage."
― William Howard Taft

QUOTE: "Men are not prisoners of fate, but only prisoners of their own minds."
― Franklin D. Roosevelt

QUOTE: "No problem of human making is too great to be overcome by human ingenuity, human energy, and the untiring hope of the human spirit."
― George H. W. Bush

QUOTE: "Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not: nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not: the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent."
― Calvin Coolidge

QUOTE: "The dangers of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours are too obvious to be disregarded."
― Franklin Pierce

SUBTOPIC: Supreme Court

QUOTE: "More important than your obligation to follow your conscience, or at least prior to it, is your obligation to form your conscience correctly." 
― Antonin Scalia

QUOTE: "The remedy for speech that is false is speech that is true. This is the ordinary course in a free society. The response to the unreasoned is the rational; to the uninformed, the enlightened; to the straight-out lie, the simple truth."
― Anthony Kennedy

QUOTE: "A funny thing happened to the First Amendment on its way to the public forum. According to the Supreme Court, money is now speech and corporations are now people. But when real people without money assemble to express their dissatisfaction with the political consequences of this, they’re treated as public nuisances and evicted."
― Robert Reich

QUOTE: "The President and the Congress are all very well in their way. They can say what they think they think, but it rests with the Supreme Court to decide what they have really thought."
― Theodore Roosevelt

QUOTE: "Government in our democracy, state and national, must be neutral in matters of religious theory, doctrine, and practice. It may not be hostile to any religion or to the advocacy of no-religion; and it may not aid, foster, or promote one religion or religious theory against another or even against the militant opposite. The First Amendment mandates governmental neutrality between religion and religion, and between religion and nonreligion."
― Abe Fortas [Epperson v. Arkansas, 393 U.S. 97, 1968.]

QUOTE: "The Press was protected so that it could bare the secrets of the government and inform the people. Only a Free and Unrestrained Press can effectively expose deception in government. And paramount among the responsibilities of a Free Press is the duty to prevent any part of the government from deceiving the people."
― Hugo Black, Supreme Court Justice

QUOTE: "...the Constitution will endure as a vital charter of human liberty as long as there are those with the courage to defend it, the vision to interpret it, and the fidelity to live by it."
― William J. Brennan Jr., Supreme Court Justice

SUBTOPIC: Taxes

QUOTE: "I contend that for a nation to try to tax itself into prosperity is like a man standing in a bucket and trying to lift himself up by the handle."
― Winston S. Churchill

QUOTE: "The hardest thing in the world to understand is the income tax."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "One thing is clear: The Founding Fathers never intended a nation where citizens would pay nearly half of everything they earn to the government."
― Ron Paul

QUOTE: "An unlimited power to tax involves, necessarily, a power to destroy; because there is a limit beyond which no institution and no property can bear taxation."
― John Marshall

QUOTE: "Collecting more taxes than is absolutely necessary is legalized robbery."
― Calvin Coolidge

QUOTE: "There is no worse tyranny than to force a man to pay for what he does not want merely because you think it would be good for him."
― Robert A. Heinlein, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress

QUOTE: "To compel a man to furnish funds for the propagation of ideas he disbelieves and abhors is sinful and tyrannical."
― Thomas Jefferson

QUOTE: "Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness... but only when you pay your taxes? That means your freedom is rented, leased, & not unalienable."
― Steve Maraboli

QUOTE: "You don't pay taxes-they take taxes."
― Chris Rock

SUBTOPIC: Voting / Democracy

QUOTE: "Democracy must be something more than two wolves and a sheep voting on what to have for dinner."
― James Bovard, Lost Rights: The Destruction of American Liberty

QUOTE: "The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter."
― Winston S. Churchill

QUOTE: "I have never voted in my life... I have always known and understood that the idiots are in a majority so it's certain they will win."
― Louis-Ferdinand Céline

QUOTE: "Presidents are selected, not elected."
― Franklin Delano Roosevelt

QUOTE: "Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority. There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men."
― Henry David Thoreau, Civil Disobedience and Other Essays

QUOTE: "I'm all in favor of the democratic principle that one idiot is as good as one genius, but I draw the line when someone takes the next step and concludes that two idiots are better than one genius."
― Leo Szilard

QUOTE: "Representative government is artifice, a political myth, designed to conceal from the masses the dominance of a self-selected, self-perpetuating, and self-serving traditional ruling class."
― Giuseppe Prezzolini

QUOTE: "I have an idea about voting, how about on every ballot we include ‘None of the above’. People may laugh at that, but what that is, it is a vote of no confidence in your government and I'm willing to bet that in some elections, 'None of the Above' would win. Imagine if you won the election but lost to 'None of the Above'. Wouldn't that make you rethink your positions?"
― Jesse Ventura

QUOTE: "When enough people understand reality, tyrants can literally be ignored out of existence. They can't ever be voted out of existence."
― Larken Rose

QUOTE: "You know your vote doesn't count, but you go through the motions, because it's been drummed into your head that you might be the one person who makes a difference."
― Marshall Karp, The Rabbit Factory

QUOTE: "Support individuals, not parties."
― Abhijit Naskar, Mad About Humans: World Maker's Almanac

MAINTOPIC: Literature

SUBTOPIC: Biographies

QUOTE: "How often do we tell our own life story? How often do we adjust, embellish, make sly cuts? And the longer life goes on, the fewer are those around to challenge our account, to remind us that our life is not our life, merely the story we have told about our life. Told to others, but—mainly—to ourselves."
― Julian Barnes, The Sense of an Ending

QUOTE: "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show."
― Charles Dickens, David Copperfield

QUOTE: "Always live your life with your biography in mind."
― Marisha Pessl, Special Topics in Calamity Physics

QUOTE: "What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself. All day long, the mill of his brain is grinding, and his thoughts, not those of other things, are his history. These are his life, and they are not written. Everyday would make a whole book of 80,000 words -- 365 books a year. Biographies are but the clothes and buttons of the man -- the biography of the man himself cannot be written."
― Mark Twain

QUOTE: "Every life is inexplicable, I kept telling myself. No matter how many facts are told, no matter how many details are given, the essential thing resists telling. To say that so and so was born here and went there, that he did this and did that, that he married this woman and had these children, that he lived, that he died, that he left behind these books or this battle or that bridge – none of that tells us very much."
― Paul Auster, The New York Trilogy

QUOTE: "In many ways. . .the completeness of biography, the achievement of its professionalization, is an ironic fiction, since no life can ever be known completely, nor would we want to know every fact about an individual. Similarly, no life is ever lived according to aesthetic proportions. The ‘plot’ of a biography is superficially based on the birth, life and death of the subject; ‘character,’ in the vision of the author. Both are as much creations of the biographer, as they are of a novelist. We content ourselves with ‘authorized fictions.’"
― Ira Bruce Nadel, Biography: Fiction, Fact & Form

QUOTE: "Most biographies and autobiographies are each merely a slightly different packaging of the well-known fact that success rarely comes quickly or easily."
― Mokokoma Mokhonoana

QUOTE: "Great geniuses have the shortest biographies."
― Ralph Waldo Emerson

QUOTE: "Biographies, as generally written, are not only misleading but false... In most instances, they commemorate a lie and cheat posterity out of the truth."
― Abraham Lincoln

SUBTOPIC: Dystopian

QUOTE: "Resisting is worth doing."
― Veronica Roth, The Transfer

QUOTE: "Why did we become blind, I don't know, perhaps one day we'll find out, Do you want me to tell you what I think, Yes, do, I don't think we did go blind, I think we are blind, Blind but seeing, Blind people who can see, but do not see."
― Jose Saramago

QUOTE: "'You talk as if a god had made the Machine,' cried the other. 'I believe that you pray to it when you are unhappy. Men made it, do not forget that. Great men, but men. The Machine is much, but not everything.'"
― E.M. Forster, The Machine Stops

QUOTE: "‘Do you remember writing in your diary,’ he said, ‘that it did not matter whether I was a friend or an enemy, since I was at least a person who understood you and could be talked to? You were right. I enjoy talking to you. Your mind appeals to me. It resembles my own mind except that you happen to be insane.’"
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "‘…I’m afraid of what the digital age will do to the world, to the things we think are important… it’s almost like people want to believe in some illusion that they’re robots and forget altogether that they’re real, living people… but everything these days is disposable, even people themselves, and that’s why I’m afraid for the world,’ Mandy confessed, looking depressed and worried.
 
 ‘So am I… but I’ll still watch all of it as the world dooms itself, because I want to see how it ends, and whether or not they’ll be intelligent enough to forget all of this digital illusion afterwards,’ Alecto explained. ‘I’m sure that they’ll be able to realize how wrong it all is… even though the idiots outnumber most people these days, there are still enough intelligent people to fight against it.’"
― Rebecca McNutt, Smog City

QUOTE: "In the end the Party would announce that two and two made five, and you would have to believe it. It was inevitable that they should make that claim sooner or later: the logic of their position demanded it. Not merely the validity of experience, but the very existence of external reality was tacitly denied by their philosophy."
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "There will be no loyalty, except loyalty towards the Party. There will be no love, except the love of Big Brother. There will be no laughter, except the laugh of triumph over a defeated enemy. There will be no art, no literature, no science. When we are omnipotent we shall have no more need of science. There will be no distinction between beauty and ugliness. There will be no curiosity, no enjoyment of the process of life. All competing pleasures will be destroyed."
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "Is it better for a man to have chosen evil than to have good imposed upon him?"
― Anthony Burgess, A Clockwork Orange

QUOTE: "No one believes more firmly than Comrade Napoleon that all animals are equal. He would be only too happy to let you make your decisions for yourselves. But sometimes you might make the wrong decisions, comrades, and then where should we be?"
― George Orwell, Animal Farm

QUOTE: "Your worst enemy, he reflected, was your own nervous system. At any moment the tension inside you was liable to translate itself into some visible symptom."
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "Every faction conditions its members to think and act a certain way. And most people do it. For most people, it's not hard to learn, to find a pattern of thought that works and stay that way. But our minds move in a dozen different directions. We can't be confined to one way of thinking, and that terrifies our leaders. It means we can't be controlled. And it means that no matter what they do, we will always cause trouble for them."
― Veronica Roth, Divergent

QUOTE: "It was possible, no doubt, to imagine a society in which wealth, in the sense of personal possessions and luxuries, should be evenly distributed, while power remained in the hands of a small privileged caste. But in practice such a society could not long remain stable. For if leisure and security were enjoyed by all alike, the great mass of human beings who are normally stupefied by poverty would become literate and would learn to think for themselves; and when once they had done this, they would sooner or later realise that the privileged minority had no function, and they would sweep it away. In the long run, a hierarchical society was only possible on a basis of poverty and ignorance."
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "That was when they suspended the Constitution. They said it would be temporary. There wasn't even any rioting in the streets. People stayed home at night, watching television, looking for some direction. There wasn't even an enemy you could put your finger on."
― Margaret Atwood, The Handmaid's Tale

QUOTE: "The point is, there is no feasible excuse for what are, for what we have made of ourselves. We have chosen to put profits before people, money before morality, dividends before decency, fanaticism before fairness, and our own trivial comforts before the unspeakable agonies of others."
― Iain M. Banks, Complicity

QUOTE: "I never thought it would get this bad. I never thought the Reestablishment would take things so far. They're incinerating culture, the beauty of diversity. The new citizens of our world will be reduced to nothing but numbers, easily interchangeable, easily removable, easily destroyed for disobedience.
 We have lost our humanity."
― Tahereh Mafi, Shatter Me

SUBTOPIC: Fairy Tales / Fantasy

QUOTE: "Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten."
― Neil Gaiman, Coraline

QUOTE: "If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than any talent for abstract, positive thinking."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "Fear isn't so difficult to understand. After all, weren't we all frightened as children? Nothing has changed since Little Red Riding Hood faced the big bad wolf. What frightens us today is exactly the same sort of thing that frightened us yesterday. It's just a different wolf. This fright complex is rooted in every individual."
― Alfred Hitchcock

QUOTE: "If you happen to read fairy tales, you will observe that one idea runs from one end of them to the other--the idea that peace and happiness can only exist on some condition. This idea, which is the core of ethics, is the core of the nursery-tales."
― G.K. Chesterton

QUOTE: "Think of every fairy-tale villainess you've ever heard of. Think of the wicked witches, the evil queens, the mad enchantresses. Think of the alluring sirens, the hungry ogresses, the savage she-beasts. Think of them and remember that somewhere, sometime, they've all been real."
― Jim Butcher, Small Favor

QUOTE: "As for fairy tales, he understood that they were reflections of the people who had spun them, and were flecked with little truths - intrusions of reality into fantasy, like toast crumbs on a wizard's beard."
― Laini Taylor, Strange the Dreamer

QUOTE: "Classic fairy tales do not deny the existence of heartache and sorrow, but they do deny universal defeat."
― Greenhaven Press

QUOTE: "Fairy tales since the beginning of recorded time, and perhaps earlier, have been 'a means to conquer the terrors of mankind through metaphor.'"
― Jack Zipes

SUBTOPIC: Fiction

QUOTE: "That's what fiction is for. It's for getting at the truth when the truth isn't sufficient for the truth."
― Tim O'Brien

QUOTE: "Fiction is the lie through which we tell the truth."
― Albert Camus

QUOTE: "Life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent. We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence. If we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great city, gently remove the roofs, and and peep in at the queer things which are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through generations, and leading to the most outre results, it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable."
― Arthur Conan Doyle, The Complete Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

QUOTE: "Good fiction’s job is to comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable."
― David Foster Wallace

QUOTE: "Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand."
― Michael Scott, The Warlock

QUOTE: "If something is there, you can only see it with your eyes open, but if it isn't there, you can see it just as well with your eyes closed. That's why imaginary things are often easier to see than real ones."
― Norton Juster, The Phantom Tollbooth

QUOTE: "Fiction reveals truth that reality obscures."
― Ralph Waldo Emerson

QUOTE: "The child intuitively comprehends that although these stories are unreal, they are not untrue ..."
― Bruno Bettelheim, The Uses of Enchantment: The Meaning and Importance of Fairy Tales

QUOTE: "The writing of solid, instructive stuff fortified by facts and figures is easy enough. There is no trouble in writing a scientific treatise on the folk-lore of Central China, or a statistical enquiry into the declining population of Prince Edward Island. But to write something out of one's own mind, worth reading for its own sake, is an arduous contrivance only to be achieved in fortunate moments, few and far in between. Personally, I would sooner have written Alice in Wonderland than the whole Encyclopedia Britannica."
― Stephen Leacock, Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town

SUBTOPIC: Horror

QUOTE: "The 3 types of terror: The Gross-out: the sight of a severed head tumbling down a flight of stairs, it's when the lights go out and something green and slimy splatters against your arm. The Horror: the unnatural, spiders the size of bears, the dead waking up and walking around, it's when the lights go out and something with claws grabs you by the arm. And the last and worse one: Terror, when you come home and notice everything you own had been taken away and replaced by an exact substitute. It's when the lights go out and you feel something behind you, you hear it, you feel its breath against your ear, but when you turn around, there's nothing there..."
― Stephen King

QUOTE: "[Horror fiction] shows us that the control we believe we have is purely illusory, and that every moment we teeter on chaos and oblivion."
― Clive Barker

QUOTE: "The Devil pulls the strings which make us dance;
 We find delight in the most loathsome things;
 Some furtherance of Hell each new day brings,
 And yet we feel no horror in that rank advance."
― Charles Baudelaire

QUOTE: "The shortest horror story:
 The last man on Earth sat alone in a room. There was a knock on the door."
― Frederic Brown

QUOTE: "Imagination, of course, can open any door - turn the key and let terror walk right in."
― Truman Capote, In Cold Blood

QUOTE: "Horror is beyond the reach of psychology."
― Theodor W. Adorno

QUOTE: "Someone once asked me what I thought horror fiction did. What its purpose was . . . I replied that when I wrote horror fiction, I tried to take the improbable, the unimaginable, and the impossible, and make it seem not only possible--but inevitable."
― Michael McDowell

QUOTE: "Horror itself is a bit of a bullied genre, the antagonist being literary snobbery and public misconception. And I think good horror tackles our darkest fears, whatever they may be. It takes us into the minds of the victims, explores the threats, disseminates fear, studies how it changes us. It pulls back the curtain on the ugly underbelly of society, tears away the masks the monsters wear out in the world, shows us the potential truth of the human condition. Horror is truth, unflinching and honest. Not everybody wants to see that, but good horror ensures that it's there to be seen."
― Kealan Patrick Burke

QUOTE: "The dark dangerous forest is still there, my friends. Beyond the space of the astronauts and the astronomers, beyond the dark, tangled regions of Freudian and Jungian psychiatry, beyond the dubious psi-realms of Dr. Rhine, beyond the areas policed by the commissars and priests and motivations-research men, far, far beyond the mad, beat, half-hysterical laughter... the utterly unknown still is and the eerie and ghostly lurk, as much wrapped in mystery as ever."
― Fritz Leiber

SUBTOPIC: Mystery

QUOTE: "The mystery story is two stories in one: the story of what happened and the story of what appeared to happen."
― Mary Roberts Rinehart

QUOTE: "The possession of knowledge does not kill the sense of wonder and mystery. There is always more mystery."
― Anais Nin

QUOTE: "We need the tonic of wildness...At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be indefinitely wild, unsurveyed and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of nature."
― Henry David Thoreau, Walden: Or, Life in the Woods

QUOTE: "Nothing whets the intelligence more than a passionate suspicion, nothing develops all the faculties of an immature mind more than a trail running away into the dark."
― Stefan Zweig, The Burning Secret and other stories

QUOTE: "The world, even the smallest parts of it, is filled with things you don't know."
― Sherman Alexie, The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian

QUOTE: "It often seems to me that all detective work is, wiping out your false starts and beginning again.
Yes, it is very true, that. And it is just what some people will not do. They conceive a certain theory, and everything has to fit into that theory. If one little fact will not fit it, they throw it aside. But it is always the facts that will not fit in that are significant."
― Agatha Christie, Death on the Nile

QUOTE: "Mystery creates wonder and wonder is the basis of man's desire to understand."
― Neil Armstrong

SUBTOPIC: Myths / Legends

QUOTE: "Fantasy is storytelling with the beguiling power to transform the impossible into the imaginable, and to reveal our own 'real' world in a fresh and truth-bearing light."
― Leonard S. Marcus, The Wand in the Word: Conversations with Writers of Fantasy

QUOTE: "History has its truth, and so has legend. Legendary truth is of another nature than historical truth. Legendary truth is invention whose result is reality. Furthermore, history and legend have the same goal; to depict eternal man beneath momentary man."
― Victor Hugo, Ninety-Three

QUOTE: "A myth is a way of making sense in a senseless world. Myths are narrative patterns that give significance to our existence."
― Rollo May

QUOTE: "After all, I believe that legends and myths are largely made of 'truth', and indeed present aspects of it that can only be received in this mode; and long ago certain truths and modes of this kind were discovered and must always reappear."
― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien

QUOTE: "Was [Sisyphus] from your province?
 'I don't know. I don't know if he's real,' Ky says. 'If he ever existed.'
 'Then why tell his story?' I don't understand, and for a second I feel betrayed. Why did Ky tell me about this person and make me feel empathy for him when there's no proof that he ever lived at all?
 Ky pauses for a moment before he answers, ...'Even if he didn't live his story, enough of us have lived lives just like it. So it's true anyway."
― Ally Condie, Matched

QUOTE: "We give up our backs and allow religious myths to apply the rear naked choke to our minds."
― Cameron Conaway, Caged: Memoirs of a Cage-Fighting Poet

QUOTE: "A myth... is a metaphor for a mystery beyond human comprehension. It is a comparison that helps us understand, by analogy, some aspect of our mysterious selves. A myth, in this way of thinking, is not an untruth but a way of reaching a profound truth."
― Christopher Vogler, The Writer's Journey: Mythic Structure for Writers

QUOTE: "There are a lot of myths which make the human race cruel and barbarous and unkind. Good and Evil, Sin and Crime, Free Will and the like delusions made to excuse God for damning men and to excuse men for crucifying each other."
― Clarence Darrow

QUOTE: "If you wish to understand the subconscious mind of an individual or a society, you have to understand the core beliefs which are shaped by the popular myths and scriptures of the society."
― Awdhesh Singh, Myths are Real, Reality is a Myth

SUBTOPIC: Poetry

QUOTE: "The Road Not Taken
 
 Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
 And sorry I could not travel both
 And be one traveler, long I stood
 And looked down one as far as I could
 To where it bent in the undergrowth;
 
 Then took the other, as just as fair,
 And having perhaps the better claim,
 Because it was grassy and wanted wear;
 Though as for that the passing there
 Had worn them really about the same,
  
 And both that morning equally lay
 In leaves no step had trodden black.
 Oh, I kept the first for another day!
 Yet knowing how way leads on to way,
 I doubted if I should ever come back.
  
 I shall be telling this with a sigh
 Somewhere ages and ages hence:
 Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—
 I took the one less traveled by,
 And that has made all the difference."
― Robert Frost

QUOTE: "To be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best day and night to make you like everybody else means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight and never stop fighting."
― E.E. Cummings

QUOTE: "Resist much, obey little."
― Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass

QUOTE: "Trees are poems the earth writes upon the sky,
 We fell them down and turn them into paper,
 That we may record our emptiness."
― Kahlil Gibran

QUOTE: "Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go."
― T.S. Eliot

QUOTE: "We shall not cease from exploration
 And the end of all our exploring
 Will be to arrive where we started
 And know the place for the first time."
― T. S. Eliot, Four Quartets

QUOTE: "The Little Boy and the Old Man
 
 Said the little boy, ‘Sometimes I drop my spoon.’
 Said the old man, ‘I do that too.’
 The little boy whispered, ‘I wet my pants.’
 ‘I do that too,’ laughed the little old man.
 Said the little boy, ‘I often cry.’
 The old man nodded, ‘So do I.’
 ‘But worst of all,’ said the boy, ‘it seems
 Grown-ups don't pay attention to me.’
 And he felt the warmth of a wrinkled old hand.
 ‘I know what you mean,’ said the little old man."
― Shel Silverstein

QUOTE: "Genuine poetry can communicate before it is understood."
― T. S. Eliot

SUBTOPIC: Science-Fiction

QUOTE: "Today we live in a society in which spurious realities are manufactured by the media, by governments, by big corporations, by religious groups, political groups... So I ask, in my writing, What is real? Because unceasingly we are bombarded with pseudo-realities manufactured by very sophisticated people using very sophisticated electronic mechanisms. I do not distrust their motives; I distrust their power. They have a lot of it. And it is an astonishing power: that of creating whole universes, universes of the mind. I ought to know. I do the same thing."
― Philip K. Dick

QUOTE: "Science fiction is the most important literature in the history of the world, because it's the history of ideas, the history of our civilization birthing itself. ...Science fiction is central to everything we've ever done, and people who make fun of science fiction writers don't know what they're talking about."
― Ray Bradbury

QUOTE: "Everything's science fiction until someone makes it science fact."
― Marie Lu, Warcross

QUOTE: "‘You mean old books?’
 ‘Stories written before space travel but about space travel.’
 ‘How could there have been stories about space travel before --’
 ‘The writers,’ Pris said, ‘made it up.’"
― Philip K. Dick, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?

QUOTE: "Isn’t that what it means to be a scientist? To push the boundaries of the unknown? To bravely, actively explore the enormity of our universe?"
― Robyn Mundell, Brainwalker

QUOTE: "Madness, and then illumination."
― Orson Scott Card, Xenocide

QUOTE: "Individual science fiction stories may seem as trivial as ever to the blinder critics and philosophers of today, but the core of science fiction -- its essence -- has become crucial to our salvation, if we are to be saved at all."
― Isaac Asimov

QUOTE: "One of the liberating effects of science fiction when I was a teenager was precisely its ability to tune me into all sorts of strange data and make me realize that I wasn’t as totally isolated in perceiving the world as being monstrous and crazy."
― William Gibson

QUOTE: "Science fiction deals with improbable possibilities, fantasy with plausible impossibilities."
― Miriam Allen de Ford

QUOTE: "Science fiction is not prescriptive; it is descriptive."
― Ursula K. LeGuin, The Left Hand of Darkness

QUOTE: "Science fiction is held in low regard as a branch of literature, and perhaps it deserves this critical contempt. But if we view it as a kind of sociology of the future, rather than as literature, science fiction has immense value as a mind-stretching force for the creation of the habit of anticipation. Our children should be studying Arthur C. Clarke, William Tenn, Robert Heinlein, Ray Bradbury and Robert Sheckley, not because these writers can tell them about rocket ships and time machines but, more important, because they can lead young minds through an imaginative exploration of the jungle of political, social, psychological, and ethical issues that will confront these children as adults."
― Alvin Toffler, Future Shock

QUOTE: "Science fiction is very well suited to asking philosophical questions; questions about the nature of reality, what it means to be human, how do we know the things that we think we know."
― Ted Chiang

SUBTOPIC: Thriller

QUOTE: "Imagine you’re a fish, swimming in a pond. You can move forward and back, side to side, but never up out of the water. If someone were standing beside the pond, watching you, you’d have no idea they were there. To you, that little pond is an entire universe. Now imagine that someone reaches down and lifts you out of the pond. You see that what you thought was the entire world is only a small pool. You see other ponds. Trees. The sky above. You realize you’re a part of a much larger and more mysterious reality than you had ever dreamed of."
― Blake Crouch, Dark Matter

QUOTE: "My power grew angry that it was confined to my petite frame and pulled against my taut skin. Growing bolder, it tore through my skin to lay flat against my outer edge. The glowing energy began to solidify against my flesh; it lengthened to mold itself to my frame and contained me in a transparent cocoon. I flexed my fingers against the waxy surface and began to panic. I was cut off from my coven now and could not feel their thoughts. I could see the panic on their faces as I fell onto my side to convulse."
― J.D. Stroube, Caged in Darkness

QUOTE: "The reflex of fear was soon replaced with another, more useful emotion.
 Rage."
― Tara Moss, Assassin

QUOTE: "…but his problem was infinity; his problem was time running along the x-axis versus stress running along the y-axis, and there never seemed to be time without stress. Stress was a constant."
― Andrew Barrett, The Third Rule - The Complete Story

QUOTE: "Thrillers provide the reader with a safe escape into a dangerous world where the stakes are as high as can be imagined with unpredictable outcomes. It's a perfect genre in which to explore hard issues of good and evil, a mirror that allows the reader to see both the good and not so good in themselves."
― Ted Dekker

QUOTE: "The most satisfying thrillers send ordinary people into battle against the forces of evil - otherwise known as greed, ego, rage, fear and laziness - and bring them out bloodied but whole."
― M. J. Rose

MAINTOPIC: Mathematics / Physics

SUBTOPIC: Classical Mechanics

QUOTE: "Classical mechanics gave us a deterministic view of the world. Quantum mechanics, conversely, gives us a probabilistic view instead. According to Newton, if you know the cause of an event, you can predict the outcome. According to M.Born, you can only predict how likely that outcome will be."
― Leonid V. Azaroff

QUOTE: "In Newton's time only two kinds of force were available for quantitative investigation. One was the force of gravity; the other the forces of push and pull encountered in everyday life... Newton endeavored to construct a general theory of all forces, both those known in his time and those that might be discovered and investigated later. He intended his theory of gravitation to be one example that he himself could work out fully... Newton formulated his celebrated three laws: (1) In the absence of force, a body will continue at rest or in its present state of uniform rectilinear motion. (2) In the presence of force, a body will be accelerated in the direction of that force, the product of its mass by its acceleration being equal to the force (f = ma). (3) To every force there corresponds an equal counterforce, acting in a direction opposite to that of the force... According to the third law, then, each planet exerts an attractive counterforce to the sun, accelerating it toward the planet... a relatively small acceleration, because the mass of the sun so vastly exceeds... every planet…"
― Peter G. Bergmann, The Riddle of Gravitation: From Newton to Einstein to Today's

QUOTE: "However far the phenomena transcend the scope of classical physical explanation, the account of all evidence must be expressed in classical terms. The argument is that simply by the word 'experiment' we refer to a situation where we can tell others what we have done and what we have learned and that, therefore, the account of the experimental arrangement and of the results of the observations must be expressed in unambiguous language with suitable application of the terminology of classical physics."
― Niels Bohr, Discussions with Einstein on Epistemological Problems in Atomic Physics, in Paul Arthur Schilpp, Albert Einstein: Philosopher Scientist (1949) pp. 199-241.

QUOTE: "The foundational achievement of classical mechanics is to establish that the first point is faulty. It is fruitful, in that framework, to allow a broader concept of the character of physical reality. To know the state of a system of particles, one must know not only their positions, but also their velocities and their masses. Armed with that information, classical mechanics predicts the system’s future evolution completely. Classical mechanics, given its broader concept of physical reality, is the very model of Einstein Sanity."
― Frank Wilczek, Einstein’s Parable of Quantum Insanity (September 10, 2015)

QUOTE: "Newtonian mechanics does not apply to all situations. If the speeds of the interacting bodies are very large —an appreciable fraction of the speed of light —we must replace Newtonian mechanics with Einstein’s special theory of relativity, which holds at any speed, including those near the speed of light. If the interacting bodies are on the scale of atomic structure (for example, they might be electrons in an atom), we must replace Newtonian mechanics with quantum mechanics. Physicists now view Newtonian mechanics as a special case of these two more comprehensive theories. Still, it is a very important special case because it applies to the motion of objects ranging in size from the very small (almost on the scale of atomic structure) to astronomical (galaxies and clusters of galaxies)."
― Jearl Walker, David Halliday, and Robert Resnick, Fundamentals of physics (10th ed., 2014), Ch. 5 : Force and Motion I

QUOTE: "I can calculate the motion of heavenly bodies but not the madness of people."
― Isaac Newton

QUOTE: "A law explains a set of observations; a theory explains a set of laws. The quintessential illustration of this jump in level is the way in which Newton’s theory of mechanics explained Kepler’s law of planetary motion. Basically, a law applies to observed phenomena in one domain (e.g., planetary bodies and their movements), while a theory is intended to unify phenomena in many domains. Thus, Newton’s theory of mechanics explained not only Kepler’s laws, but also Galileo’s findings about the motion of balls rolling down an inclined plane, as well as the pattern of oceanic tides. Unlike laws, theories often postulate unobservable objects as part of their explanatory mechanism. So, for instance, Freud’s theory of mind relies upon the unobservable ego, superego, and id, and in modern physics we have theories of elementary particles that postulate various types of quarks, all of which have yet to be observed."
― John L. Casti in Correlations, Causes, and Chance, Searching for Certainty: How Scientists Predict the Future (1990).

QUOTE: "... Inertia resists acceleration, but acceleration relative to what? Within the frame of classical mechanics the only answer is: Inertia resists acceleration relative to space. This is a physical prop­erty of space—space acts on objects, but objects do not act on space. Such is prob­ably the deeper meaning of Newton's assertion spatium est absolutum (space is absolute). But the idea disturbed some, in particular Leibnitz, who did not ascribe an independent existence to space but considered it merely a proper­ty of ‘things’ (contiguity of physical objects)."
― Albert Einstein: (April 1950) 'On the generalized theory of gravitation.' Scientific American 182 (4): 13–17. (p. 15)

SUBTOPIC: Discrete Mathematics

QUOTE: "Conventional wisdom, fooled by our misleading ‘physical intuition’, is that the real world is continuous, and that discrete models are necessary evils for approximating the ‘real’ world, due to the innate discreteness of the digital computer."
― Doron Zeilberger

QUOTE: "The concept of the infinitely small is involved in the relation of points to a line or the relation of the discrete to the continuous, and Zeno's paradoxes may have caused the Greeks to shy away from this subject."
— Morris Kline, Mathematical Thought from Ancient to Modern Times, Oxford University Press, 1972

QUOTE: "The relationship of point to line bothered the Greeks and led Aristotle to separate the two. Though he admits points are on lines, he says that a line is not made up of points and that the continuous cannot be made up of the discrete. This distinction contributed also to the presumed need for separating numbers from geometry, since to the Greeks numbers were discrete and geometry dealt with continuous magnitudes."
— Morris Kline, Mathematical Thought from Ancient to Modern Times, Oxford University Press, 1972

QUOTE: "The Fibonacci Sequence turns out to be the key to understanding how nature designs... and is... a part of the same ubiquitous music of the spheres that builds harmony into atoms, molecules, crystals, shells, suns and galaxies and makes the Universe sing."
― Guy Murchie, The Seven Mysteries of Life: An Exploration of Science and Philosophy

QUOTE: "In the end, it all comes down to 0 and 1."
― Vineet Goel

SUBTOPIC: Electricity / Magnetism

QUOTE: "For decades, new-energy researchers talked about the possibility of treating a magnet so that its magnetic field would continuously shake or vibrate. On rare occasions, Sweet saw this effect, called self-oscillation, occur in electric transformers. He felt it could be coaxed into doing something useful, such as producing energy. Sweet thought that if he could find the precise way to shake or disturb a magnet's force field, the field would continue to shake by itself. It would be similar to striking a bell and having the bell keep on ringing. Sweet - who said his ideas came to him in dreams - turned for inspiration to his expertise in magnets. He knew magnets could be used to produce electricity, and wanted to see if he could get power out of a magnet by something other than the standard induction process. What Sweet wanted to do was to keep the magnet still and just shake its magnetic field. This shaking, in turn, would create an electric current. One new-energy researcher compares self-oscillation to a leaf on a tree waving in a gentle breeze. While the breeze itself isn't moving back and forth, it sets the leaf into that kind of motion. Sweet thought that if cosmic energy could be captured to serve as the breeze, then the magnetic field would serve as the leaf. Sweet would just have to supply a small amount of energy to set the magnetic field in motion, and space energy would keep it moving."
― Jeane Manning, Breakthrough Power: How Quantum-Leap New Energy Inventions Can Transform Our World

QUOTE: "Electricity is of two kinds, positive and negative. The difference is, I presume, that one comes a little more expensive, but is more durable; the other is a cheaper thing, but the moths get into it."
― Stephen Leacock

QUOTE: "Fibre optic is becoming like electricity. If you look at how electricity spread around the globe 100 years ago, that's what's happening now."
― Reed Hastings

QUOTE: "We forget just how painfully dim the world was before electricity. A candle, a good candle, provides barely a hundredth of the illumination of a single 100 watt light bulb."
― Bill Bryson

QUOTE: "What I view life like is about energy. Everything is about energy - everything. We physically are little units of electrical energy, and we vibrate and project electromagnetic thought."
― John Trudell

QUOTE: "Electromagnetic theory and experiment gave us the telephone, radio, TV, computers, and made the internal combustion engine practical - thus, the car and airplane, leading inevitably to the rocket and outer-space exploration."
― Gregory Benford

SUBTOPIC: Geometry

QUOTE: "Philosophy [nature] is written in that great book which ever is before our eyes -- I mean the universe -- but we cannot understand it if we do not first learn the language and grasp the symbols in which it is written. The book is written in mathematical language, and the symbols are triangles, circles and other geometrical figures, without whose help it is impossible to comprehend a single word of it; without which one wanders in vain through a dark labyrinth."
― Galileo

QUOTE: "Geometry has two great treasures; one is the Theorem of Pythagoras; the other, the division of a line into extreme and mean ratio. The first we may compare to a measure of gold; the second we may name a precious jewel."
― Johannes Kepler

QUOTE: "In reality the universe has no geometry."
― Kedar Joshi, Superultramodern Science And Philosophy

QUOTE: "In the pentagram, the Pythagoreans found all proportions well-known in antiquity: arithmetic, geometric, harmonic, and also the well-known golden proportion, or the golden ratio. ... Probably owing to the perfect form and the wealth of mathematical forms, the pentagram was chosen by the Pythagoreans as their secret symbol and a symbol of health. - Alexander Voloshinov [As quoted in Stakhov]"
― Alexey Stakhov, Mathematics of Harmony

QUOTE: "Recognizing that geometry is entirely intellectual and independent of the actual description and existence of figures, Fontenelle did not discuss the subject from the point of view of science or metaphysics as had Aristotle and Leibnez."
― Carl B. Boyer, The History of the Calculus and Its Conceptual Development

QUOTE: "The Greeks made Space the subject-matter of a science of supreme simplicity and certainty. Out of it grew, in the mind of classical antiquity, the idea of pure science. Geometry became one of the most powerful expressions of that sovereignty of the intellect that inspired the thought of those times. At a later epoch, when the intellectual despotism of the Church, which had been maintained through the Middle Ages, had crumbled, and a wave of scepticism threatened to sweep away all that had seemed most fixed, those who believed in Truth clung to Geometry as to a rock, and it was the highest ideal of every scientist to carry on his science 'more geometrico."
― Hermann Weyl

QUOTE: "In his ... 'Geometrical peculiarities of the Pyramids', Ballard shows the relationship between the equal area theory and the golden number. After checking Herodotus' statement via dimensions Ballard concludes: 'I have therefore the authority of Herodotus to support the theory which I shall subsequently set forth, that this pyramid was the exponent of lines divided in mean and extreme ratio."
― Roger Herz-Fischler, The Shape of the Great Pyramid

SUBTOPIC: Number Theory

QUOTE: "Some numbers, even large ones, have no factors - except themselves, of course, and 1. These are called prime numbers, because everything they are starts with themselves. They are original, gnarled, unpredictable, the freaks of the number world."
― Richard Friedberg

QUOTE: "It is a matter for considerable regret that Fermat, who cultivated the theory of numbers with so much success, did not leave us with the proofs of the theorems he discovered. In truth, Messrs Euler and Lagrange, who have not disdained this kind of research, have proved most of these theorems, and have even substituted extensive theories for the isolated propositions of Fermat. But there are several proofs which have resisted their efforts."
― Adrien-Marie Legendre

QUOTE: "No part of mathematics is ever, in the long run, ‘useless.’ Most of number theory has very few ‘practical’ applications. That does not reduce its importance, and if anything it enhances its fascination. No one can predict when what seems to be a most obscure theorem may suddenly be called upon to play some vital and hitherto unsuspected role."
― C. Stanley Ogilvy, Excursions in Number Theory

QUOTE: "Mathematics is the queen of the sciences and number theory is the queen of mathematics. She often condescends to render service to astronomy and other natural sciences, but in all relations she is entitled to the first rank."
― Carl Friedrich Gauss, in Gauss zum Gedächtniss (1856) by Wolfgang Sartorius von Waltershausen, as translated in Memorabilia Mathematica; or, The Philomath's Quotation-Book (1914) by Robert Édouard Moritz, p. 271

QUOTE: "Most texts on number theory contain inserted historical notes but in this course I have attempted to obtain a presentation of the results of the theory integrated more fully in the historical and cultural framework. Number theory seems particularly suited to this form of exposition, and in my experience it has contributed much to making the subject more informative as well as more palatable to the students. ...for the understanding of a greater part of the subject matter a knowledge of the simplest algebraic rules should be sufficient."
― Oystein Ore, Number Theory and its History (1948)

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Mathematics

QUOTE: "Mathematics expresses values that reflect the cosmos, including orderliness, balance, harmony, logic, and abstract beauty."
― Deepak Chopra

QUOTE: "The difference between the poet and the mathematician is that the poet tries to get his head into the heavens while the mathematician tries to get the heavens into his head."
― G.K. Chesterton

QUOTE: "But in my opinion, all things in nature occur mathematically."
― Rene Decartes

QUOTE: "[When asked why are numbers beautiful?]
 
 It’s like asking why is Ludwig van Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony beautiful. If you don't see why, someone can't tell you. I know numbers are beautiful. If they aren't beautiful, nothing is."
― Paul Erdos

QUOTE: "The mathematicians are the priests of the modern world."
― Bill Gaede, Why God Doesn't Exist

QUOTE: "Mathematical Knowledge adds a manly Vigour to the Mind, frees it from Prejudice, Credulity, and Superstition."
― John Arbuthnot

QUOTE: "All mathematicians live in two different worlds. They live in a crystalline world of perfect platonic forms. An ice palace. But they also live in the common world where things are transient, ambiguous, subject to vicissitudes. Mathematicians go backward and forward from one world to another. They’re adults in the crystalline world, infants in the real one."
― Sylvain Cappell

QUOTE: "It is a case of twice two makes four! Nature does not ask your permission, she has nothing to do with your wishes, and whether you like her laws or dislike them, you are bound to accept her as she is, and consequently all her conclusions."
― Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Notes from Underground

QUOTE: "As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain, and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "Today's scientists have substituted mathematics for experiments, and they wander off through equation after equation, and eventually build a structure which has no relation to reality."
― Nikola Tesla

QUOTE: "The science of mathematics presents the most brilliant example of how pure reason may successfully enlarge its domain without the aid of experience."
― Immanuel Kant

SUBTOPIC: Quantum Mechanics

QUOTE: "Quantum computation is... a distinctively new way of harnessing nature... It will be the first technology that allows useful tasks to be performed in collaboration between parallel universes."
― David Deutsch

QUOTE: "I remember discussions with Bohr which went through many hours till very late at night and ended almost in despair; and when at the end of the discussion I went alone for a walk in the neighbouring park I repeated to myself again and again the question: Can nature possibly be so absurd as it seemed to us in these atomic experiments?"
― Werner Heisenberg

QUOTE: "Quantum theory provides us with a striking illustration of the fact that we can fully understand a connection though we can only speak of it in images and parables."
― Werner Heisenberg

QUOTE: "Einstein said that if quantum mechanics were correct then the world would be crazy. Einstein was right - the world is crazy."
― Daniel M. Greenberger

QUOTE: "[T]he atoms or elementary particles themselves are not real; they form a world of potentialities or possibilities rather than one of things or facts."
― Werner Heisenberg

QUOTE: "In the world of the very small, where particle and wave aspects of reality are equally significant, things do not behave in any way that we can understand from our experience of the everyday world...all pictures are false, and there is no physical analogy we can make to understand what goes on inside atoms. Atoms behave like atoms, nothing else."
― John Gribbin, In Search of Schrödinger's Cat: Quantum Physics and Reality

QUOTE: "When you ask what are electrons and protons I ought to answer that this question is not a profitable one to ask and does not really have a meaning. The important thing about electrons and protons is not what they are but how they behave, how they move. I can describe the situation by comparing it to the game of chess. In chess, we have various chessmen, kings, knights, pawns and so on. If you ask what chessman is, the answer would be that it is a piece of wood, or a piece of ivory, or perhaps just a sign written on paper, or anything whatever. It does not matter. Each chessman has a characteristic way of moving and this is all that matters about it. The whole game of chess follows from this way of moving the various chessmen."
― Paul A.M. Dirac

QUOTE: "Electrons, when they were first discovered, behaved exactly like particles or bullets, very simply. Further research showed, from electron diffraction experiments for example, that they behaved like waves. As time went on there was a growing confusion about how these things really behaved ---- waves or particles, particles or waves? Everything looked like both.
 
This growing confusion was resolved in 1925 or 1926 with the advent of the correct equations for quantum mechanics. Now we know how the electrons and light behave. But what can I call it? If I say they behave like particles I give the wrong impression; also if I say they behave like waves. They behave in their own inimitable way, which technically could be called a quantum mechanical way. They behave in a way that is like nothing that you have seen before. Your experience with things that you have seen before is incomplete. The behavior of things on a very tiny scale is simply different. An atom does not behave like a weight hanging on a spring and oscillating. Nor does it behave like a miniature representation of the solar system with little planets going around in orbits. Nor does it appear to be somewhat like a cloud or fog of some sort surrounding the nucleus. It behaves like nothing you have seen before.
 
There is one simplification at least. Electrons behave in this respect in exactly the same way as photons; they are both screwy, but in exactly in the same way….
 
The difficulty really is psychological and exists in the perpetual torment that results from your saying to yourself, ‘But how can it be like that?’ which is a reflection of uncontrolled but utterly vain desire to see it in terms of something familiar. I will not describe it in terms of an analogy with something familiar; I will simply describe it. There was a time when the newspapers said that only twelve men understood the theory of relativity. I do not believe there ever was such a time. There might have been a time when only one man did, because he was the only guy who caught on, before he wrote his paper. But after people read the paper a lot of people understood the theory of relativity in some way or other, certainly more than twelve. On the other hand, I think I can safely say that nobody understands quantum mechanics. So do not take the lecture too seriously, feeling that you really have to understand in terms of some model what I am going to describe, but just relax and enjoy it. I am going to tell you what nature behaves like. If you will simply admit that maybe she does behave like this, you will find her a delightful, entrancing thing. Do not keep saying to yourself, if you can possible avoid it, ‘But how can it be like that?’ because you will get down the drain, into a blind alley from which nobody has escaped. Nobody knows how it can be like that."
― Richard P. Feynman, The Character of Physical Law

QUOTE: "Our inner experiences are the results of the quantum attention functions. The universe is an ocean of quantum attention functions. We also can have direct access to the experiences of others just by focusing our attention functions."
― Amit Ray, Quantum Attention Function Theory

QUOTE: "Quantum attention functions are the bridges between the mental and the physical."
― Amit Ray, Quantum Attention Function Theory

QUOTE: "[There is a] growing conviction that quantum mechanics is at root a theory not of tiny particles and waves but of information and its causative influence. It’s a theory of how much we can deduce about the world by looking at it, and how that depends on intimate, invisible connections between here and there."
― Philip Ball, Beyond Weird

SUBTOPIC: Relativity

QUOTE: "Time is an illusion."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "But Einstein came along and took space and time out of the realm of stationary things and put them in the realm of relativity—giving the onlooker dominion over time and space, because time and space are modes by which we think and not conditions in which we live."
― Dimitri Marianoff, Einstein: An Intimate Study of a Great Man

QUOTE: "Philosophers play with the word, like a child with a doll. It does not mean that everything in life is relative."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "Einstein gave us a problem he knew we would never solve."
― Eric John Mancini

QUOTE: "In short, [Einstein's General Theory of Relativity] describes a colorful and amazing world where universes explode, space collapses into bottomless holes, time sags and slows near a planet, and the unbounded extensions of interstellar space ripple and sway like the surface of the sea... And all of this...was not a tale told by an idiot in a fit of lunacy or a hallucination caused by Calabria's burning Mediterranean sun and its dazzling sea. It was reality.
 Or better, a glimpse of reality, a little less veiled than our blurred and banal everyday view of it. A reality that seems to be made of the same stuff that our dreams are made of, but that is nevertheless more real than our clouded, quotidian dreaming."
― Carlo Rovelli, Seven Brief Lessons on Physics

TOPIC: "Asked in 1919 whether it was true that only three people in the world understood the theory of general relativity, [Eddington] allegedly replied: 'Who's the third?’"
― Arthur Stanley Eddington

SUBTOPIC: String Theory

QUOTE: "Some string theorists prefer to believe that string theory is too arcane to be understood by human beings, rather than consider the possibility that it might just be wrong."
― Lee Smolin, The Trouble with Physics: The Rise of String Theory, the Fall of a Science and What Comes Next

QUOTE: "All high mathematics serves to do is to beget higher mathematics."
― Ashim Shanker, Don't Forget to Breathe

QUOTE: "…The wonders of life and the universe are mere reflections of microscopic particles engaged in a pointless dance fully choreographed by the laws of physics."
― Brian Greene, The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory

QUOTE: "String theory makes sense to me because the universe is a symphony that creates harmony with the vibration of our strings."
― Kamand Kojouri

QUOTE: "(The string is extremely tiny, at the Planck length of 10 ^-33 cm, a billion billion times smaller than a proton, so all subatomic particles appear pointlike.)
 
 If we were to pluck this string, the vibration would change; the electron might turn into a neutrino. Pluck it again and it might turn into a quark. In fact, if you plucked it hard enough, it could turn into any of the known subatomic particles.
 
 Strings can interact by splitting and rejoining, thus creating the interactions we see among electrons and protons in atoms. In this way, through string theory, we can reproduce all the laws of atomic and nuclear physics. The ‘melodies’ that can be written on strings correspond to the laws of chemistry. The universe can now be viewed as a vast symphony of strings."
― Michio Kaku, Parallel Worlds: A Journey through Creation, Higher Dimensions, and the Future of the Cosmos

QUOTE: "If string theory is right, the microscopic fabric of our universe is a richly intertwined multidimensional labyrinth within which the strings of the universe endlessly twist and vibrate, rhythmically beating out the laws of the cosmos."
― Brian Greene, The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory

QUOTE: "One of the strangest features of string theory is that it requires more than the three spatial dimensions that we see directly in the world around us. That sounds like science fiction, but it is an indisputable outcome of the mathematics of string theory."
― Brian Greene

SUBTOPIC: Thermodynamics

QUOTE: "A man's suffering is similar to the behavior of gas. If a certain quantity of gas is pumped into an empty chamber, it will fill the chamber completely and evenly, no matter how big the chamber. Thus suffering completely fills the human soul and conscious mind, no matter whether the suffering is great or little. Therefore the 'size' of human suffering is absolutely relative."
― Viktor Frankl, Man's Search for Meaning

QUOTE: "A good many times I have been present at gatherings of people who, by the standards of the traditional culture, are thought highly educated and who have with considerable gusto been expressing their incredulity at the illiteracy of scientists. Once or twice I have been provoked and have asked the company how many of them could describe the Second Law of Thermodynamics. The response was cold: it was also negative. Yet I was asking something which is about the scientific equivalent of: Have you read a work of Shakespeare's?"
― Charles Percy Snow

QUOTE: "The fundamental laws of the universe which correspond to the two fundamental theorems of the mechanical theory of heat.
 1. The energy of the universe is constant.
 2. The entropy of the universe tends to a maximum."
― Rudolf Julius E. Clausius, The Mechanical Theory Of Heat

QUOTE: "The algebraic sum of all the transformations occurring in a cyclical process can only be positive, or, as an extreme case, equal to nothing.
 
 [Statement of the second law of thermodynamics, 1862]"
― Rudolf Clausius, Abhandlungen

QUOTE: "Arm Chair Version of the Laws of Thermodynamics
 
 Law 0: If you touch anything, you're in the game.
 
 Law 1: Life is a game.
 
 Law 2: You can't win.
 
 Law 3: You can't even break even; you can't tie."
― Thomas Tabb Mayo IV

QUOTE: "Nothing in life is certain except death, taxes and the second law of thermodynamics."
― Seth Lloyd

QUOTE: "No structure, even an artificial one, enjoys the process of entropy. It is the ultimate fate of everything, and everything resists it."
― Philip K. Dick, Galactic Pot-Healer

MAINTOPIC: Music

SUBTOPIC: Classical

QUOTE: "Modern man is full of platitudes about living life to its fullest, with catchy keychain phrases and little plaques for kitchen walls. But if you've never retreated to the solitude of a dark room and listened to Beethoven's Ninth from start to finish, you know nothing. For music is a transcendental exploration of human emotion and experience, the very fabric of life in its purest form. And the Ninth is our greatest musical achievement."
― Tiffany Madison

QUOTE: "Sometimes,
 when inspiration runs dry,
 I drink classical music
 until my words spill out."
― Kamand Kojouri

QUOTE: "The classics constitute an almost infallible process for awakening the soul to its full stature. In coming to know a classic, one has made a friend for life. It can be recalled to the mind and 'read' all over again in the imagination. And actually perusing the text anew provides a joy that increases with time. These marvelous works stand many rereadings without losing their force. In fact, they almost demand rereading, as a Beethoven symphony demands replaying. We never say of a music masterpiece, 'Oh I've heard that!' Instead, we hunger to hear it again to take in once more, with new feeling and insight, its long-familiar strains."
― Louise Cowan, Invitation to the Classics: A Guide to Books You've Always Wanted to Read

QUOTE: "Whenever I find myself losing faith in humanity, I come back to classical music. They are a great reminder that we are also able to produce beautiful things made out of strong and barely controllable emotions."
― Efrat Cybulkiewicz

QUOTE: "Listening to classical music is like reading philosophy books, not everybody has to do it. Music is not for everybody."
― Krzysztof Penderecki

QUOTE: "(Re Classical music)
 ‘It has no personality.’
 ‘Not true. It has a personality that isn't as flashy. It's deeper. It demands more from the listener. That's why I like it. It isn't easy.’"
― Jasmine Warga, My Heart and Other Black Holes

QUOTE: "Classical music is the best, and cheapest, mind-altering drug in the world."
― Kamand Kojouri

QUOTE: "A love of classical music is only partially a natural response to hearing the works performed; it also must come about by a decision to listen carefully, to pay close attention, a decision inevitably motivated by the cultural and social prestige of the art."
― Charles Rosen

SUBTOPIC: Country

QUOTE: "Country music was the most segregated kind of music in America, where even whites played jazz and even blacks sang in the opera. Something like country music was what lynch mobs must have enjoyed while stringing up their black victims. Country music was not necessarily lynching music, but no other music could be imagined as lynching’s accompaniment. Beethoven’s Ninth was the opus for Nazis, concentration camp commanders, and possibly President Truman as he contemplated atomizing Hiroshima, classical music the refined score for the high-minded extermination of brutish hordes. Country music was set to the more humble beat of the red-blooded, bloodthirsty American heartland."
― Viet Thanh Nguyen, The Sympathizer

QUOTE: "A guitar twanged from the far-off radio. Country music. Damn. They'd resorted to torture already."
― Kelley Armstrong, Stolen

QUOTE: "Now let me ask you all a question, what's more pathetic and sad to you? A bunch of poor black people who listen to rich black rappers rapping about their wealth, or a bunch of poor white people who listen to rich white country singers singing songs about how much they love being broke rednecks?"
― T.J. Kirk

QUOTE: "I don't like country music, but I don't mean to denigrate those who do. And for the people who like country music, denigrate means 'put down'."
― Bob Newhart

SUBTOPIC: EDM

QUOTE: "I don't appreciate avant-garde, electronic music. It makes me feel quite ill."
― Ravi Shankar

QUOTE: "For me, one of the downfalls of electronic music is that it can feel a little soulless or robotic."
― Flume

QUOTE: "A lot of electronic music out there feels cold. I want to incorporate a human element."
― Flume

QUOTE: "I do feel like there's a level of ridiculousness going on in electronic music... It's getting borderline absurd out there."
― Kaskade

QUOTE: "What kind of music keeps its relevance? That's why I purposely try and avoid any particularly current trends in electronic music. I do actively stay away from the most popular rhythms of the moment. In six weeks' time, those will sound out-of-date."
― Jon Hopkins

SUBTOPIC: Heavy Metal

QUOTE: "One of my schizophrenic patients had told me heavy metal drowns the voices best."
― Ellery A. Kane, Shadows Among Us

QUOTE: "You have to respect people for what they do. Just because you don't like it, it's like, I don't like heavy metal too much, but I can still respect it."
― Logic

QUOTE: "The same sensations that you get in heavy metal are in horror movies. Heavy metal sounds evil and horror movies are evil."
― Kirk Hammett

QUOTE: "Heavy metal is always going to be there. At its core, it's all about a primitive connection we all need to keep in our lives."
― Rob Halford

QUOTE: "Heavy Metal is what happens when a group of people with competitively disgusting appearances come together to try to kill the air."
― Dylan Moran

SUBTOPIC: Hip-Hop

QUOTE: "A poet's mission is to make words do more work than they normally do, to make them work on more than one level."
― Jay-Z, Decoded

QUOTE: "Love yourself and your expression, you can't go wrong."
― KRS-One

QUOTE: "I believe hip hop’s characteristic beliefs as a whole are misunderstood, underappreciated and highly underestimated."
― Carlos Wallace, The Other 99 T.Y.M.E.S: Train Your Mind to Enjoy Serenity

QUOTE: "The misconception is that the genre is a breeding ground for negativity; that it is the birthplace of violence and misogynistic attitudes, and the genesis of every kind of unfavorable stereotype imaginable. When, in fact, if looked at through the lens of neutrality and open-mindedness, the virtues of hip hop far outweigh the negative stigma attached to it."
― Carlos Wallace, The Other 99 T.Y.M.E.S: Train Your Mind to Enjoy Serenity

QUOTE: "Whether we consider hip-hop as an evolved manifestation of the Harlem Renaissance or something completely new under the sun, it clearly has moved beyond the stage of just entertaining lives to that of informing and empowering lives."
― Aberjhani, Journey through the Power of the Rainbow: Quotations from a Life Made Out of Poetry

QUOTE: "The thing about hip-hop today is it's smart, it's insightful. The way they can communicate a complex message in a very short space is remarkable."
― Barack Obama

QUOTE: "Hip-hop is ever changing but you'll always have the pack. And you'll always have those people who are separated from the pack."
― Eminem

QUOTE: "Hip-hop started with street poets with great lyrical skills, and that's what hip-hop has always been about for me."
― Gza

QUOTE: "I could let these dream killers kill my self-esteem, or use my arrogance as a steam to power my dreams."
― Kanye West

QUOTE: "You’ve got enemies? Good, that means you actually stood up for something."
― Eminem

QUOTE: "We can’t change the world until we change ourselves."
― Biggie Smalls

SUBTOPIC: Jazz

QUOTE: "Jazz is not just 'Well, man, this is what I feel like playing.' It's a very structured thing that comes down from a tradition and requires a lot of thought and study."
― Wynton Marsalis

QUOTE: "Jazz is the folk music of the machine age."
― Paul Whiteman

QUOTE: "Risk is at the heart of jazz. Every note we play is a risk."
― Steve Lacy

QUOTE: "The best of jazz for all its virtues cannot escape the limitations of its origin: it is indoor music, city music, distilled from the melancholy nightclubs and the marijuana..."
― Edward Abbey, Desert Solitaire

QUOTE: "One thing I like about jazz is that it emphasized doing things differently from what other people were doing."
― Herbie Hancock

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Music

QUOTE: "Rhythm and harmony find their way into the inward places of the soul."
― Plato

QUOTE: "Music expresses that which cannot be said and on which it is impossible to be silent."
― Victor Hugo

QUOTE: "Music produces a kind of pleasure which human nature cannot do without."
― Confucius

QUOTE: "And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "After silence, that which comes nearest to expressing the inexpressible is music."
― Aldous Huxley, Music at Night and Other Essays

QUOTE: "People worry about kids playing with guns, and teenagers watching violent videos; we are scared that some sort of culture of violence will take them over. Nobody worries about kids listening to thousands - literally thousands - of songs about broken hearts and rejection and pain and misery and loss."
― Nick Hornby, High Fidelity

QUOTE: "‘Ah, music,’ he said, wiping his eyes. ‘A magic beyond all we do here!’"
― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone

QUOTE: "There are two means of refuge from the misery of life — music and cats."
― Albert Schweitzer

QUOTE: "Music is to the soul what words are to the mind."
― Modest Mouse, Modest Mouse - Good News for People Who Love Bad News

QUOTE: "I love the relationship that anyone has with music ... because there's something in us that is beyond the reach of words, something that eludes and defies our best attempts to spit it out. ... It's the best part of us probably ..."
― Nick Hornby, Songbook

QUOTE: "Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything."
― Plato

SUBTOPIC: Pop

QUOTE: "What's missing from pop music is danger."
― Prince

QUOTE: "I felt that the elegance of pop music was that it was reflective: we were holding up a mirror to our audience and reflecting them philosophically and spiritually, rather than just reflecting society or something called 'rock and roll.'"
― Pete Townshend

QUOTE: "Pop music can absorb so many peculiar talents, ranging from the completely nonmusical poseur who just uses music as a kind of springboard for a sense of style, to people who just love putting all that complicated stuff together, brick by brick, on their computers, to people like me who like playing conceptual games and being surprised."
― Brian Eno

QUOTE: "Pop music has always been about the mainstream and what appeals to the public."
― Patti Smith

QUOTE: "I seriously hate pop music and all things super-commercial."
― Ani DiFranco

QUOTE: "Pop music doesn't challenge anything."
― Glenn Danzig

SUBTOPIC: Rap

QUOTE: "The art of rap is deceptive. It seems so straightforward and personal and real that people read it completely literally, as raw testimony or autobiography. And sometimes the words we use, nigga, bitch, motherfucker, and the violence of the images overwhelms some listeners. It's all white noise to them till they hear a bitch or a nigga and then they run off yelling ‘See!’ and feel vindicated in their narrow conception of what the music is about."
― Jay-Z, Decoded

QUOTE: "Frankly, I don't feel the fire anymore from the youth. I miss my era when motherfuckers were fighting for shit, spitting fire in their lyrics."
― Ice-T, Ice: A Memoir of Gangster Life and Redemption—from South Central to Hollywood

QUOTE: "My life's all I got and Heaven is all in my brain, and when I feel I'm in Hell my ideas are what get me through pain."
― Hopsin

QUOTE: "Without order, nothing exists. Without chaos, nothing evolves."
― Jedi Mind Tricks, Heavy Metal Kings

QUOTE: "You know it’s funny when it rains it pours
 They got money for wars, but can’t feed the poor."
― 2Pac

QUOTE: "'Life without knowledge is death in disguise.'
 'Knowledge Of Self.'"
― Talib Kweli

SUBTOPIC: Rock

QUOTE: "We believed anything worth doing was worth overdoing"
― Steven Tyler

QUOTE: "Rock is not dead, but it is The Walking Dead, with a few groups still trying to survive in a zombie apocalypse of musicians or fringe and splintered groups."
― Michael P. Naughton

QUOTE: "On the issue of censorship of rock music, do you see that as a religious issue, too?
 
 Yes, I do. Incidentally, I don't like rock music. I never have liked it. I have never understood it, and I can't hear the lyrics. I think that most people can't hear them either. I'm still stuck with Chopin and Beethoven and Bach, and all those old ones. The whole point is, I feel that everyone who wants to say anything, do anything, should be able to say anything or do anything, within the limits of not hurting another person. And I don't see how rock music hurts anybody."
― Madalyn Murray O'Hair

QUOTE: "Rock n' roll unchained a nation and revolutionized radio and the record industry, not to mention the motion picture business."
― Henry Rollins

QUOTE: "I don't know which will go first - rock 'n' roll or Christianity."
― John Lennon

QUOTE: "Rock 'n Roll: The most brutal, ugly, desperate, vicious form of expression it has been my misfortune to hear."
― Frank Sinatra

MAINTOPIC: Philosophy

SUBTOPIC: Aesthetics

QUOTE: "Beauty is how you feel inside, and it reflects in your eyes. It is not something physical."
― Sophia Loren

QUOTE: "Needing to have reality confirmed and experience enhanced by photographs is an aesthetic consumerism to which everyone is now addicted. Industrial societies turn their citizens into image-junkies; it is the most irresistible form of mental pollution."
― Susan Sontag, On Photography

QUOTE: "Art is the imposing of a pattern on experience, and our aesthetic enjoyment is recognition of the pattern."
― Alfred North Whitehead

QUOTE: "Aesthetics have substantial political consequences. How one views oneself as beautiful or not beautiful or desirable or not desirable has deep consequences in terms of one’s feelings of self-worth and one’s capacity to be a political agent."
― Cornel West, Breaking Bread: Insurgent Black Intellectual Life

QUOTE: "Any great art work … revives and readapts time and space, and the measure of its success is the extent to which it makes you an inhabitant of that world - the extent to which it invites you in and lets you breathe its strange, special air."
― Leonard Bernstein

QUOTE: "Desire for beauty will endure and undermine the desire for truth."
― Richard O. Prum, The Evolution of Beauty: How Darwin's Forgotten Theory of Mate Choice Shapes the Animal World—And Us

QUOTE: "Fascism is fundamentally and at bottom an aesthetic conception, and . . . it is your function as creators of beautiful things to portray with the greatest efficacy the sublime beauty and inevitable reality of the Fascist ideal."
― Louis de Bernières, Corelli's Mandolin

QUOTE: "The aesthetic can have its revenge upon ideology by revealing a power to complicate that is also a power to undermine."
― Murray Krieger

QUOTE: "What is especially striking and remarkable is that in fundamental physics a beautiful or elegant theory is more likely to be right than a theory that is inelegant."
― Murray Gell-Mann

QUOTE: "I do not believe that there is anything inherently and unavoidably ugly about industrialism. A factory or even a gasworks is not obliged of its own nature to be ugly, any more than a palace or a dog-kennel or a cathedral. . . . But in any case, though the ugliness of industrialism is the most obvious thing about it and the thing every newcomer exclaims against, I doubt whether it is centrally important. And perhaps it is not even desirable, industrialism being what it is, that it should learn to disguise itself as something else. As Mr Aldous Huxley has truly remarked, a dark Satanic mill ought to look like a dark Satanic mill and not like the temple of mysterious and splendid gods. Moreover, even in the worst of the industrial towns one sees a great deal that is not ugly in the narrow aesthetic sense. A belching chimney or a stinking slum is repulsive chiefly because it implies warped lives and ailing children. Look at it from a purely aesthetic standpoint and it may have a certain macabre appeal. I find that anything outrageously strange generally ends by fascinating me even when I abominate it."
― George Orwell, The Road to Wigan Pier

QUOTE: "Finer feeling, which we now wish to consider, is chiefly of two kinds: the feeling of the *sublime* and that of the *beautiful*. The stirring of each is pleasant, but in different ways. The sight of a mountain whose snow-covered peak rises above the clouds, the description of a raging storm, or Milton's portrayal of the infernal kingdom, arouse enjoyment but with horror; on the other hand, the sight of flower strewn meadows, valleys with winding brooks and covered with grazing flocks, the description of Elysium, or Homer's portrayal of the girdle of Venus, also occasion a pleasant sensation but one that is joyous and smiling. In order that the former impression could occur to us in due strength, we must have *a feeling of the sublime*, and, in order to enjoy the latter well, *a feeling of the beautiful*. Tall oaks and lonely shadows in a sacred grove are sublime; flower beds, low hedges and trees trimmed in figures are beautiful. Night is sublime; day is beautiful. Temperaments that possess a feeling for the sublime are drawn gradually, by the quiet stillness of a summer evening as the shimmering light of the stars breaks through the brown shadows of night and the lonely moon rises into view, into high feelings of friendship, of disdain for the world, of eternity. The shining day stimulates busy fervor and a feeling of gaiety. The sublime *moves*, the beautiful *charms*."
― Immanuel Kant, Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime

QUOTE: "They would be astonished to discover the seriously German problem that we are dealing with, a vortex and a turning-point at the very centre of German hopes. But perhaps those same people will find it distasteful to see an aesthetic problem taken so seriously, if they can see art as nothing more than an entertaining irrelevance, an easily dispensable tinkle of bells next to the 'seriousness of life': as if no one was aware what this contrast with the 'seriousness of life' amounted to. Let these serious people know that I am convinced that art is the supreme task and the truly metaphysical activity of this life in the sense of that man, my noble champion on that path, to whom I dedicate this book."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy

QUOTE: "Is the world really beautified by the fact that man thinks it beautiful? He has humanized it, that is all."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols/The Anti-Christ

QUOTE: "Then there are the fully intentional pleasures, which, although in some way tied up with sensory or perceptual experience, are modes of exploration of the world. Aesthetic pleasures are like this. Aesthetic pleasures are contemplative - they involve studying an object OUTSIDE of the self, to which one is GIVING something (namely, attention and all that flows from it), and not TAKING, as in the pleasure that comes from drugs and drinks. Hence such pleasures are not addictive - there is no pathway to reward that can be short-circuited here, and a serotonin injection is not a cheap way of obtaining the experience of PARISFAL or THE MERCHANT OF VENICE."
― Roger Scruton, On Human Nature

QUOTE: "[Beauty] exists merely in the mind which contemplates [things]; and each mind perceives a different beauty; and every individual ought to acquiesce in his own sentiment, without pretending to regulate those of others."
― David Hume

QUOTE: "In the course of aesthetic experience, the perceiver may be overwhelmed by this 'mere object', overcome with emotion, altered to the very roots of his being.[...] The experience of beauty involves an exchange of power, and as such, it is often disorienting, a mix of humility and exaltation, subjugation and liberation, awe and mystified pleasure.[...] Many people, fearing a pleasure they cannot control, have vilified beauty as a siren or a whore. Since at one time or another though, everyone answers to 'her' call, it would be well if we could recognize the meaning of our succumbing as a valuable response, an opportunity for self-revelation rather than defeat.[...] It entails a flexibility and empathy toward 'Others' in general and the capacity to see ourselves as both active and passive without fearing that we will be diminished in the process."
― Wendy Steiner, Venus in Exile: The Rejection of Beauty in Twentieth-Century Art

QUOTE: "For art to exist, for any sort of aesthetic activity to exist, a certain physiological precondition is indispensable: intoxication."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "Nothing is beautiful, only man: on this piece of naivete rests all aesthetics, it is the first truth of aesthetics. Let us immediately add its second: nothing is ugly but degenerate man - the domain of aesthetic judgment is therewith defined."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "If a work of art is rich and vital and complete, those who have artistic instincts will see its beauty, and those to whom ethics appeal more strongly than aesthetics will see its moral lesson. It will fill the cowardly with terror, and the unclean will see in it their own shame."
― Oscar Wilde

SUBTOPIC: Epistemology

QUOTE: "Maybe each human being lives in a unique world, a private world different from those inhabited and experienced by all other humans. . . If reality differs from person to person, can we speak of reality singular, or shouldn't we really be talking about plural realities? And if there are plural realities, are some more true (more real) than others? What about the world of a schizophrenic? Maybe it's as real as our world. Maybe we cannot say that we are in touch with reality and he is not, but should instead say, His reality is so different from ours that he can't explain his to us, and we can't explain ours to him. The problem, then, is that if subjective worlds are experienced too differently, there occurs a breakdown in communication ... and there is the real illness."
― Philip K. Dick

QUOTE: "And although I have seen nothing but black crows in my life, it doesn't mean that there's no such thing as a white crow. Both for a philosopher and for a scientist it can be important not to reject the possibility of finding a white crow. You might almost say that hunting for 'the white crow' is science's principal task."
― Jostein Gaarder, Sophie's World

QUOTE: "Science is often misrepresented as ‘the body of knowledge acquired by performing replicated controlled experiments in the laboratory.’ Actually, science is something broader: the acquisition of reliable knowledge about the world."
― Jared Diamond, Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed

QUOTE: "The fundament upon which all our knowledge and learning rests is the inexplicable."
― Arthur Schopenhauer, The Wisdom of Life and Counsels and Maxims

QUOTE: "Scientists study only those aspects of the universe that it is within their gift to study: what is observable; what is measurable and amenable to statistical analysis; and, indeed, what they can afford to study within the means and time available. Science thus emerges as a giant tautology, a ‘closed system’. It can present us with robust answers only because its practitioners take very great care to tailor the questions."
― Colin Tudge

QUOTE: "Science involves the quest for knowledge. Any such quest, by necessity, involves some commitment to epistemology. The epistemology of irrationalism is fatal to all science because it makes knowledge of anything impossible. If a truth’s contrary can also be true, no truth about anything can possibly be known."
― RC Sproul

QUOTE: "Without sensibility no object would be given to us, without understanding no object would be thought. Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind. It is, therefore, just as necessary to make our concepts sensible, that is, to add the object to them in intuition, as to make our intuitions intelligible, that is, to bring them under concepts. These two powers or capacities cannot exchange their functions. The understanding can intuit nothing, the senses can think nothing. Only through their union can knowledge arise. But that is no reason for confounding the contribution of either with that of the other; rather is it a strong reason for carefully separating and distinguishing the one from the other. We therefore distinguish the science of the rules of sensibility in general, that is, aesthetic, from the science of the rules of the understanding in general, that is, logic."
― Emmanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason

QUOTE: "How does it happen that a properly endowed natural scientist comes to concern himself with epistemology? Is there no more valuable work in his specialty? I hear many of my colleagues saying, and I sense it from many more, that they feel this way. I cannot share this sentiment. When I think about the ablest students whom I have encountered in my teaching, that is, those who distinguish themselves by their independence of judgment and not merely their quick-wittedness, I can affirm that they had a vigorous interest in epistemology. They happily began discussions about the goals and methods of science, and they showed unequivocally, through their tenacity in defending their views, that the subject seemed important to them. Indeed, one should not be surprised at this."
― Albert Einstein

SUBTOPIC: Existential

QUOTE: "I do not believe in the uselessness of suffering. It might be a profound reason to live."
― Aman Tiwari, Memoir: The Cathartic Night

QUOTE: "There is something infantile in the presumption that somebody else has a responsibility to give your life meaning and point… The truly adult view, by contrast, is that our life is as meaningful, as full and as wonderful as we choose to make it."
― Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion

QUOTE: "Life is tragic simply because the earth turns, and the sun inexorably rises and sets, and one day, for each of us, the sun will go down for the last, last time. Perhaps the whole root of our trouble, the human trouble, is that we will sacrifice all the beauty of our lives, will imprison ourselves in totems, taboos, crosses, blood sacrifices, steeples, mosques, races, armies, flags, nations, in order to deny the fact of death, which is the only fact we have. It seems to me that one ought to rejoice in the fact of death – ought to decide, indeed, to earn one’s death by confronting with passion the conundrum of life."
― James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time

QUOTE: "I knew a man who gave twenty years of his life to a scatterbrained woman, sacrificing everything to her, his friendships, his work, the very respectability of his life and who one evening recognized that he had never loved her. He had been bored, that's all, bored like most people. Hence he had made himself out of whole cloth a life full of complications and drama. Something must happen and that explains most human commitments. Something must happen even loveless slavery, even war or death."
― Albert Camus

QUOTE: "Without knowledge of what I am and why I am here, it is impossible to live, and since I cannot know that, I cannot live either. In an infinity of time, in an infinity of matter, and an infinity of space a bubble-organism emerges which will exist for a little time and then burst, and that bubble am I."
― Leo Tolstoy, Anna Karenina

QUOTE: "If the immediate and direct purpose of our life is not suffering then our existence is the most ill-adapted to its purpose in the world."
― Arthur Schopenhauer, On the Suffering of the World

QUOTE: "He who has a why to live can bear almost any how."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "We had to learn ourselves and, furthermore, we had to teach the despairing men, that it did not really matter what we expected from life, but rather what life expected from us. We need to stop asking about the meaning of life, and instead to think of ourselves as those who were being questioned by life—hourly and daily. Our answer must consist not in talk and meditation, but in right action and in right conduct. Life ultimately means taking the responsibility to find the right answers to its problems and to fulfill the task which it constantly sets for each individual."
― Viktor Frankl

QUOTE: "In some remote corner of the universe, poured out and glittering in innumerable solar systems, there once was a star on which clever animals invented knowledge. That was the haughtiest and most mendacious minute of ‘world history’- yet only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths the star grew cold, and the clever animals had to die."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, On Truth and Untruth: Selected Writings

QUOTE: "But how can we venture to reprove or praise the universe! Let us beware of attributing to it heartlessness and unreason or their opposites: it is neither perfect nor beautiful nor noble, and has no desire to become any of these; it is by no means striving to imitate mankind! It is quite impervious to all our aesthetic and moral judgments! It has likewise no impulse to self-preservation or impulses of any kind; neither does it know any laws. Let us beware of saying there are laws in nature. There are only necessities: there is no one to command, no one to obey, no one to transgress..."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, A Nietzsche Reader

QUOTE: "‘Supposing there is no life everlasting. Think what it means if death is really the end of all things. They've given up all for nothing. They've been cheated. They're dupes.’
 
 Waddington reflected for a little while. ‘I wonder if it matters what they have aimed at is illusion. Their lives are in themselves beautiful. I have an idea that the only thing which makes it possible to regard this world we live in without disgust is the beauty which now and then men create out of the chaos. The pictures they paint, the music they compose, the books they write, and the lives they lead. Of all these the richest beauty is the beautiful life. That is the perfect work of art.’"
― W Somerset Maugham, The Painted Veil

QUOTE: "Why live? What would he have to live for? To aim for? Live to exist? But hadn't he been prepared even before, on a thousand occasions, to give up his existence for an idea, a hope, even a fantasy? Existence alone had never been enough for him; he'd always wanted more. And perhaps the only reason he'd considered himself a man to whom more was permitted than to others was the very strength of his desires."
― Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment

QUOTE: "In the consciousness of the truth he has perceived, man now sees everywhere only the awfulness or the absurdity of existence and loathing seizes him."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "Man suffers only because he takes seriously what the gods made for fun."
― Alan Wilson Watts

SUBTOPIC: Ethics / Morality

QUOTE: "The authentic human being is one of us who instinctively knows what he should not do, and, in addition, he will balk at doing it. He will refuse to do it, even if this brings down dread consequences to him and to those whom he loves. This, to me, is the ultimately heroic trait of ordinary people; they say no to the tyrant and they calmly take the consequences of this resistance. Their deeds may be small, and almost always unnoticed, unmarked by history. Their names are not remembered, nor did these authentic humans expect their names to be remembered. I see their authenticity in an odd way: not in their willingness to perform great heroic deeds but in their quiet refusals. In essence, they cannot be compelled to be what they are not."
― Philip K. Dick

QUOTE: "What is good? - All that heightens the feelings of power, the will to power, power itself in man."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "On the whole, men are more good than bad; that, however, isn't the real point. But they are more or less ignorant, and it is this that we call vice or virtue; the most incorrigible vice being that of an ignorance that fancies it knows everything and therefore claims for itself the right to kill. The soul of the murderer is blind; and there can be no true goodness nor true love without the utmost clear-sightedness."
― Albert Camus

QUOTE: "Therefore, it is we who are responsible for much of the evil in the world; and we are each morally required to accept rather than project that ponderous responsibility - lest we prefer instead to wallow in a perennial state of powerless, frustrated, furious, victimhood. For what one possesses the power to bring about, one has also the power to limit, mitigate, counteract, or transmute."
― Stephen A. Diamond, Anger, Madness, and the Daimonic

QUOTE: "It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets."
― Voltaire

QUOTE: "Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something."
― Henry David Thoreau

QUOTE: "To educate a person in the mind but not in morals is to educate a menace to society."
― Theodore Roosevelt

QUOTE: "Most of the evil in this world is done by people with good intentions."
― T.S. Eliot

QUOTE: "So far, about morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after."
― Ernest Hemingway, Death in the Afternoon

QUOTE: "Right is right even if no one is doing it; wrong is wrong even if everyone is doing it."
― Saint Augustine

QUOTE: "In keeping silent about evil, in burying it so deep within us that no sign of it appears on the surface, we are implanting it, and it will rise up a thousand fold in the future. When we neither punish nor reproach evildoers, we are not simply protecting their trivial old age, we are thereby ripping the foundations of justice from beneath new generations."
― Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, The Gulag Archipelago 1918–1956

QUOTE: "Do you really mean to tell me the only reason you try to be good is to gain God's approval and reward, or to avoid his disapproval and punishment? That's not morality, that's just sucking up, apple-polishing, looking over your shoulder at the great surveillance camera in the sky, or the still small wiretap inside your head, monitoring your every move, even your every base thought."
― Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion

QUOTE: "Immorality, no less than morality, has at all times found support in religion."
― Sigmund Freud, The Future of an Illusion

QUOTE: "There is perhaps no phenomenon which contains so much destructive feeling as 'moral indignation,' which permits envy or hate to be acted out under the guise of virtue."
― Erich Fromm, Man for Himself: An Inquiry into the Psychology of Ethics

QUOTE: "One of the greatest tragedies in mankind's entire history may be that morality was hijacked by religion."
― Arthur C. Clarke

QUOTE: "There is no justice in the laws of nature, no term for fairness in the equations of motion. The Universe is neither evil, nor good, it simply does not care. The stars don't care, or the Sun, or the sky.
 
But they don't have to! WE care! There IS light in the world, and it is US!"
― Eliezer Yudkowsky, Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality

QUOTE: "All persons ought to endeavor to follow what is right, and not what is established."
― Aristotle

QUOTE: "'What is morality?' she asked.
 'Judgement to distinguish right and wrong, vision to see the truth, and courage to act upon it, dedication to that which is good, integrity to stand by the good at any price.'"
― Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged

QUOTE: "The death of dogma is the birth of morality."
― Immanuel Kant

QUOTE: "It is a self-deception of philosophers and moralists to imagine that they escape decadence by opposing it. That is beyond their will; and, however little they acknowledge it, one later discovers that they were among the most powerful promoters of decadence."
― Friedrich Nietzsche, The Will to Power

QUOTE: "A man's ethical behaviour should be based effectually on sympathy, education, and social ties and needs; no religious basis is necessary. Man would indeed be in a poor way if he had to be restrained by fear of punishment and hope of reward after death."
― Albert Einstein

SUBTOPIC: Logic

QUOTE: "You can prove anything you want by coldly logical reason---if you pick the proper postulates."
― Isaac Asimov, I, Robot

QUOTE: "What is the proof that I know something? Most certainly not my saying I know it."
― Ludwig Wittgenstein, On Certainty

QUOTE: "Logic is the science not of external forms of thought, but of the laws of development ‘of all material, natural and spiritual things’, i.e., of the development of the entire concrete content of the world and of its cognition, i.e., the sum-total, the conclusion of the History of knowledge of the world."
― Vladimir Ilyich Lenin

QUOTE: "For, after all, how do we know that two and two make four? Or that the force of gravity works? Or that the past is unchangeable? If both the past and the external world exist only in the mind, and if the mind itself is controllable – what then?"
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "When dealing with people, remember you are not dealing with creatures of logic, but with creatures bristling with prejudice and motivated by pride and vanity."
― Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People

QUOTE: "A mind all logic is like a knife all blade. It makes the hand bleed that uses it."
― Rabindranath Tagore

QUOTE: "If someone doesn't value evidence, what evidence are you going to provide to prove that they should value it? If someone doesn’t value logic, what logical argument could you provide to show the importance of logic?"
― Sam Harris

QUOTE: "It is always easy to be logical. It is almost impossible to be logical to the bitter end."
― Albert Camus

QUOTE: "It is better to debate a question without settling it than to settle a question without debating it."
― Joseph Joubert

QUOTE: "In a republican nation, whose citizens are to be led by reason and persuasion and not by force, the art of reasoning becomes of first importance"
― Thomas Jefferson

SUBTOPIC: Metaphysics

QUOTE: "Chisels and hammers may suffice to work a piece of wood, but for etching we require an etcher's needle. Thus common sense and speculative understanding are both useful, but each in its own way: the former in judgments which apply immediately to experience; the latter when we judge universally from mere concepts, as in metaphysics, where sound common sense, so called in spite of the inappropriateness of the word, has no right to judge at all."
― Immanuel KANT (1724 - 1804)

QUOTE: "In the beginning there was nothing, which exploded."
― Terry Pratchett, Lords and Ladies

QUOTE: "Why are there beings at all, instead of Nothing?"
― Martin Heidegger, Introduction to Metaphysics

QUOTE: "One possibility is: God is nothing but the power of the universe to organize itself."
― Lee Smolin

QUOTE: "What is it that makes a person insist passionately on the existence of metaphysical realities that can be neither demonstrated nor refuted?"
― Stephen Batchelor, Confession of a Buddhist Atheist

QUOTE: "One can ask why the I has to appear in the cogito {Descartes’ argument 'I think therefore I am.'}, since the cogito, if used rightly, is the awareness of pure consciousness, not directed at any fact or action. In fact the I is not necessary here, since it is never united directly to consciousness. One can even imagine a pure and self-aware consciousness which thinks of itself as impersonal spontaneity."
― Jean-Paul Sartre

QUOTE: "Energy defines life not flesh and blood. WE are infinite energies experiencing infinity. Through a finite aperture."
― Stanley Victor Paskavich

QUOTE: "Whatsoever is, is in God, and without God nothing can be, or be conceived."
― Baruch Spinoza

QUOTE: "Metaphysics means nothing but an unusually obstinate effort to think clearly. The fundamental conceptions of psychology are practically very clear to us, but theoretically they are very confused, and one easily makes the obscurest assumptions in this science without realizing, until challenged, what internal difficulties they involve."
― William James, The Principles of Psychology, Vol 1

QUOTE: "The universe will use any vehicle and any medium to communicate with us. Our job is to be alert and to listen."
― Elaine Seiler

QUOTE: "A great physicist is always a metaphysicist as well; he has a higher concept of his knowledge and his task."
― Ernst Jünger, The Glass Bees

QUOTE: "Physics isn't the most important thing. Metaphysics is."
― Khalid Masood

QUOTE: "All physical interpretations are bounded by metaphysical presuppositions."
― R.A. Delmonico

QUOTE: "Intelligent Design is an answer to fine-tuning that does not appeal to most scientists. The multiverse offers another explanation.
 
 If there are zillions of different universes with different properties—for example, some with nuclear forces much stronger than in our universe and some with nuclear forces much weaker—then some of those universes will allow the emergence of life and some will not.
 
 Some of those universes will be dead, lifeless hulks of matter and energy, and some will permit the emergence of cells, plants and animals, minds.
  
 From the huge range of possible universes predicted by the theories, the fraction of universes with life is undoubtedly small. But that doesn’t matter.
  
 We live in one of the universes that permits life because otherwise we wouldn’t be here to ponder the question."
― Alan Lightman, The Accidental Universe: The World You Thought You Knew

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Mind

QUOTE: "The great achievement of Kant is to have shown, once for all, that the external world is known to us only as sensation; and that the mind is no mere helpless tabula rasa, the inactive victim of sensation, but a positive agent, selecting and reconstructing experience as experience arrives."
― Will Durant, The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers

QUOTE: "Sensation is unorganized stimulus, perception is organized sensation, conception is organized perception, science is organized knowledge, wisdom is organized life: each is a greater degree of order, and sequence, and unity.
 
 Whence this order, this sequence, this unity?
  
 Not from the things themselves; for they are known to us only by sensation that come through a thousand channels at once in disorderly multitude; it is our purpose that put order and sequence and unity upon this importunate lawlessness; it is ourselves, our personalities, our minds, that bring light upon these seas."
― Will Durant, The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers

QUOTE: "We suffer not from the events in our lives but from our judgement about them."
― Epictetus

QUOTE: "Philosophy of mind is more important for success and happiness than ambition, education, or status."
― Debasish Mridha

QUOTE: "The order and connection of ideas in the same as the order and connection of things"
― Baruch Spinoza, Ethics

QUOTE: "Unlike any other empirical object in Nature, the mind's presence is immediately apparent to itself, but opaque to all external observers."
― George Makari, Soul Machine: The Invention of the Modern Mind

QUOTE: "For the [innate] general principles enter into our thoughts, of which they form the soul and the connection. They are as necessary thereto as the muscles and sinews are for walking, although we do not at all think of them."
― Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, New Essays on Human Understanding

QUOTE: "There is a gap between the mind and the world, and (as far as anybody knows) you need to posit internal representations if you are to have a hope of getting across it. Mind the gap. You’ll regret it if you don't."
― Jerry A. Fodor

QUOTE: "I think that consciousness has always been the most important topic in the philosophy of mind, and one of the most important topics in cognitive science as a whole, but it has been surprisingly neglected in recent years."
― David Chalmers

QUOTE: "The object of studying philosophy is to know one's own mind, not other people's."
― Dean Inge

QUOTE: "There is no real philosophy until the mind turns around and examines itself."
― Will Durant

QUOTE: "Men fear thought as they fear nothing else on earth -- more than ruin, more even than death. Thought is subversive and revolutionary, destructive and terrible, thought is merciless to privilege, established institutions, and comfortable habits; thought is anarchic and lawless, indifferent to authority, careless of the well-tried wisdom of the ages. Thought looks into the pit of hell and is not afraid ... Thought is great and swift and free, the light of the world, and the chief glory of man."
― Bertrand Russell, Why Men Fight

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Religion

QUOTE: "All religions are based on obsolete terminology."
― Vladimir Nabokov, Pale Fire

QUOTE: "I am not a non-believer. In fact, I am a devout believer – I am a devout believer in God, and I see my God in the humans – in each human."
― Abhijit Naskar

QUOTE: "Those who obey without contemplation, never attain holiness."
― Abhijit Naskar, Revolution Indomable

QUOTE: "Nonsensical people of I-me-my-one-godism blaspheme against the god of every other religion but at the same time expect the latter to respect the former's touted god! Makes perfect sense, eh?"
― Fakeer Ishavardas

QUOTE: "Question every damn ism, including atheism and god-ism."
― Fakeer Ishavardas

QUOTE: "People fight over religion, because they don't understand religion. They think reading a few Bibles, Qurans and Vedas makes them religious. Books are not religion my friend. Real religion is realization of the Self."
― Abhijit Naskar

QUOTE: "I do not despise believers. I find them neither ridiculous nor pathetic, but I lose all hope when I see that they prefer the comforting fairy tales of children to the cruel hard facts of adults. Better the faith that brings peace of mind than the rationality that brings worry--even at the price of perpetual mental infantilism. What a demonstration of metaphysical sleight of hand--and what a monstrous price!"
― Michel Onfray

QUOTE: "Even if one gives up the concept of God, there are quite a few recognized immaterial things that one has to struggle with. Things such as thought, truth, logic, morality, purpose, and justice become a real problem if the universe is simply material. One could say that these things are imaginary, but then they would have to explain the immaterial construct of imagination."
― Joel Furches, Christ-Centered Apologetics: Sharing the Gospel with Evidence

QUOTE: "For one to define and understand the nature of the universe, one must first understand the nature of the force behind its existence."
― Reid A. Ashbaucher, Made in the Image of God: Understanding the Nature of God and Mankind in a Changing World

QUOTE: "However modest one may be in one's demand for intellectual cleanliness, one cannot help feeling, when coming into contact with the New Testament, a kind of inexpressible discomfiture: for the unchecked impudence with which the least qualified want to raise their voice on the greatest problems, and even claim to be judges of things, surpasses all measure. The shameless levity with which the most intractable problems (life, world, God, purpose of life) are spoken of, as if they were not problems at all but simply things that these little bigots KNEW!"
― Friedrich Nietzsche, The Will to Power

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Science

QUOTE: "To say that science is the measure of all true knowledge is not a scientific truth but a philosophic claim about science. It's scientism posing as science."
― Scott Klusendorf, The Case for Life: Equipping Christians to Engage the Culture

QUOTE: "Philosophy may be blind without science, but science can lack vision without philosophy."
― Scott O'Reilly, Socrates in Cyberspace: The Search for the Soul in the 21st Century

QUOTE: "I fully agree with you about the significance and educational value of methodology as well as history and philosophy of science. So many people today - and even professional scientists - seem to me like somebody who has seen thousands of trees but has never seen a forest. A knowledge of the historic and philosophical background gives that kind of independence from prejudices of his generation from which most scientists are suffering. This independence created by philosophical insight is - in my opinion - the mark of distinction between a mere artisan or specialist and a real seeker after truth."
― Albert Einstein [Correspondance to Robert Thorton in 1944]

QUOTE: "Physics explains everything, which we know because anything physics cannot explain does not exist, which we know because whatever exists must be explicable by physics, which we know because physics explains everything. There is something here of the mystical."
― David Bentley Hart, The Experience of God: Being, Consciousness, Bliss

QUOTE: "Physics is mathematical not because we know so much about the physical world, but because we know so little; it is only its mathematical properties that we can discover."
― Bertrand Russell

QUOTE: "We all live our lives blindly believing in the people who make the decisions. Believing in science. Because the world is inscrutable and all information is hazy. We accept the existence of a round globe, of an atom's nucleus that sticks together like drops, of a shrinking universe -- and the necessity of interfering with genetic material. Not because we know these things are true, but because we believe the people who tell us so. we are all proselytes of science. And, in contrast to the followers of other religions, we can no longer bridge the gap between ourselves and the priests. Problems arise when we stumble on an outright lie. And it affects our own lives....that of a child who for the first time catches his parents in a lie he had always suspected."
― Peter Hoeg

QUOTE: "It is clear that there is a very great deal to be learnt about the universe and the endless subtleties of its various manifestations. What about the moral side of man, or what people with a religious bent of mind would prefer to call the spiritual nature of man? How will this develop in the endless aeons of the future? Perhaps in most of these questions like Newton we are still standing on the shore while the great ocean of knowledge lies ahead. It is significant that after more than two centuries of the acquisition of knowledge eminent men of science still have similar feelings."
― Jamal Nazrul Islam, The Ultimate Fate Of The Universe

QUOTE: "I will put my cards on the table. I am an atheist myself. I completely endorse the central doctrine of science.
 
 I do not believe in the existence of a Being who lives beyond matter and energy, even if that Being refrains from entering the fray of the physical world.
 
 However.... science is not the only avenue for arriving at knowledge... there are interesting and vital questions beyond the reach of test tubes and equations.
 
 Obviously, vast territories of the arts concern inner experiences that cannot be analyzed by science. The humanities, such as history and philosophy, raise questions that do not have definite or unanimously accepted answers."
― Alan Lightman

QUOTE: "…the boundaries separating science, nonscience, and pseudoscience are much fuzzier and more permeable than Popper (or, for that matter, most scientists) would have us believe. There is, in other words, no litmus test."
― Massimo Pigliucci, Nonsense on Stilts: How to Tell Science from Bunk

QUOTE: "There is no quicker way for a scientist to bring discredit upon himself and on his profession than roundly to declare — particularly when no declaration of any kind is called for — that science knows or soon will know the answers to all questions worth asking, and that the questions that do not admit a scientific answer are in some way non-questions or pseudo-questions that only simpletons ask and only the gullible profess to be able to answer."
― Peter Medawar

QUOTE: "Scientific materialism is neither an implication nor a presupposition of doing science. Rather it is a metaphysical and sometimes religious stance that some people have toward science."
― Angus Menuge, Agents Under Fire: Materialism and the Rationality of Science

SUBTOPIC: Truth

QUOTE: "[Truth] will keep your soul from withering and dying while you encounter the inevitable tragedy of life. It will help you avoid the terrible desire to seek vengeance for that tragedy-part of the terrible sin of Being, which everything must bear gracefully, just so it can exist."
― Jordan B. Peterson, 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos

QUOTE: "What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms – in short, a sum of human relations, which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "They won't listen. Do you know why? Because they have certain fixed notions about the past. Any change would be blasphemy in their eyes, even if it were the truth. They don't want the truth; they want their traditions."
― Isaac Asimov, Pebble in the Sky

QUOTE: "Seeking what is true is not seeking what is desirable."
― Albert Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays

QUOTE: "Life has no meaning a priori… It is up to you to give it a meaning, and value is nothing but the meaning that you choose."
― Jean-Paul Sartre

QUOTE: "Man cannot endure his own littleness unless he can translate it into meaningfulness on the largest possible level."
― Ernest Becker, The Denial of Death

QUOTE: "If truth be that which sets men free, the greatest trick the devil shall play is convincing the world that truth does not exist."
― Jordan O'Donnell

QUOTE: "To know and not to know, to be conscious of complete truthfulness while telling carefully constructed lies, to hold simultaneously two opinions which cancelled out, knowing them to be contradictory and believing in both of them, to use logic against logic, to repudiate morality while laying claim to it, to believe that democracy was impossible and that the Party was the guardian of democracy, to forget whatever it was necessary to forget, then to draw it back into memory again at the moment when it was needed, and then promptly to forget it again: and above all, to apply the same process to the process itself -- that was the ultimate subtlety: consciously to induce unconsciousness, and then, once again, to become unconscious of the act of hypnosis you had just performed. Even to understand the word 'doublethink' involved the use of doublethink."
― George Orwell, 1984

QUOTE: "The reason I talk to myself is because I’m the only one whose answers I accept."
― George Carlin

QUOTE: "The unexamined life is not worth living."
― Socrates

QUOTE: "Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth."
― Oscar Wilde

QUOTE: "Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth."
― Henry David Thoreau, Walden

QUOTE: "There are no facts, only interpretations."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "People often claim to hunger for truth, but seldom like the taste when it's served up."
― George R.R. Martin, A Clash of Kings

QUOTE: "Who is more humble? The scientist who looks at the universe with an open mind and accepts whatever the universe has to teach us, or somebody who says everything in this book must be considered the literal truth and never mind the fallibility of all the human beings involved?"
― Carl Sagan

QUOTE: "Three things can not hide for long: the Moon, the Sun and the Truth."
― Gautama Buddha

QUOTE: "If someone is able to show me that what I think or do is not right, I will happily change, for I seek the truth, by which no one was ever truly harmed. It is the person who continues in his self-deception and ignorance who is harmed."
― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

QUOTE: "The truth is not for all men but only for those who seek it."
― Ayn Rand

QUOTE: "I do not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the sea-shore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me."
― Isaac Newton

QUOTE: "If you would be a real seeker after truth, it is necessary that at least once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things."
― René Descartes

QUOTE: "The high-minded man must care more for the truth than for what people think."
― Aristotle

QUOTE: "You should not honor men more than truth."
― Plato

QUOTE: "Either you repeat the same conventional doctrines everybody is saying, or else you say something true, and it will sound like it's from Neptune."
― Noam Chomsky

QUOTE: "I examined the poets, and I look on them as people whose talent overawes both themselves and others, people who present themselves as wise men and are taken as such, when they are nothing of the sort.
 
 From poets, I moved to artists. No one was more ignorant about the arts than I; no one was more convinced that artists possessed really beautiful secrets. However, I noticed that their condition was no better than that of the poets and that both of them have the same misconceptions. Because the most skillful among them excel in their specialty, they look upon themselves as the wisest of men. In my eyes, this presumption completely tarnished their knowledge. As a result, putting myself in the place of the oracle and asking myself what I would prefer to be — what I was or what they were, to know what they have learned or to know that I know nothing — I replied to myself and to the god: I wish to remain who I am.
 
 We do not know — neither the sophists, nor the orators, nor the artists, nor I— what the True, the Good, and the Beautiful are. But there is this difference between us: although these people know nothing, they all believe they know something; whereas, I, if I know nothing, at least have no doubts about it. As a result, all this superiority in wisdom which the oracle has attributed to me reduces itself to the single point that I am strongly convinced that I am ignorant of what I do not know."
― Socrates

QUOTE: "Convictions are more dangerous foes of truth than lies."
― Nietzsche

MAINTOPIC: Psychology

SUBTOPIC: Abnormal

QUOTE: "People may be constrained in two basic ways: physically, by confining them in jails, mental hospitals, and so forth; and symbolically, by confining them in occupations, social roles, and so forth. Actually, confinement of the second type is more common and pervasive in the day-to-day conduct of society’s business; as a rule, only when the symbolic, or socially informal, confinement of conduct fails or proves inadequate, is recourse taken to physical, or socially formal, confinement…. When people perform their social roles properly – in other words, when social expectations are adequately met – their behavior is considered normal. Though obvious, this deserves emphasis: a waiter must wait on tables; a secretary must type; a father must earn a living; a mother must cook and sew and take care of her children. Classic systems of psychiatric nosology had nothing to say about these people, so long as they remained neatly imprisoned in their respective social cells; or, as we say about the Negroes, so long as they ‘knew their place.’ But when such persons broke out of ‘jail’ and asserted their liberty, they became of interest to the psychiatrist."
― Thomas Szasz, Ideology and Insanity: Essays on the Psychiatric Dehumanization of Man

QUOTE: "One must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "A sick thought can devour the body's flesh more than fever or consumption."
― Guy de Maupassant, Le Horla et autres contes fantastiques

QUOTE: "To be ill adjusted to a deranged world is not a breakdown."
― Jeanette Winterson

QUOTE: "If you trade your authenticity for safety, you may experience the following: anxiety, depression, eating disorders, addiction, rage, blame, resentment, and inexplicable grief."
― Brené Brown

QUOTE: "That millions of people share the same forms of mental pathology does not make these people sane."
― Erich Fromm, The Sane Society

QUOTE: "There is no standard normal. Normal is subjective. There are seven billion versions of normal on this planet."
― Matt Haig, Reasons to Stay Alive

QUOTE: "Our society tends to regard as a sickness any mode of thought or behavior that is inconvenient for the system and this is plausible because when an individual doesn't fit into the system it causes pain to the individual as well as problems for the system. Thus the manipulation of an individual to adjust him to the system is seen as a cure for a sickness and therefore as good."
― Theodore Kaczynski

QUOTE: "The scariest thing of all is never knowing what you're suddenly going to believe."
― Neal Shusterman, Challenger Deep

QUOTE: "To think too much is a disease."
― Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Notes from Underground & The Double

QUOTE: "Calling it lunacy makes it easier to explain away the things we don't understand."
― Megan Chance, The Spiritualist

SUBTOPIC: Drugs / Addiction

QUOTE: "I have absolutely no pleasure in the stimulants in which I sometimes so madly indulge. It has not been in the pursuit of pleasure that I have periled life and reputation and reason. It has been the desperate attempt to escape from torturing memories, from a sense of insupportable loneliness and a dread of some strange impending doom."
― Edgar Allan Poe

QUOTE: "People use drugs, legal and illegal, because their lives are intolerably painful or dull. They hate their work and find no rest in their leisure. They are estranged from their families and their neighbors. It should tell us something that in healthy societies drug use is celebrative, convivial, and occasional, whereas among us it is lonely, shameful, and addictive. We need drugs, apparently, because we have lost each other."
― Wendell Berry, The Art of the Commonplace: The Agrarian Essays

QUOTE: "If you want to understand a society, take a good look at the drugs it uses. And what can this tell you about American culture? Well, look at the drugs we use. Except for pharmaceutical poison, there are essentially only two drugs that Western civilization tolerates: Caffeine from Monday to Friday to energize you enough to make you a productive member of society, and alcohol from Friday to Monday to keep you too stupid to figure out the prison that you are living in."
― Bill Hicks

QUOTE: "I'm glad mushrooms are against the law, because I took them one time, and you know what happened to me? I laid in a field of green grass for four hours going, 'My God! I love everything.' Yeah, now if that isn't a hazard to our country … how are we gonna justify arms dealing when we realize that we're all one?"
― Bill Hicks

QUOTE: "Drug misuse is not a disease, it is a decision, like the decision to step out in front of a moving car. You would call that not a disease but an error of judgment."
― Philip Dick

QUOTE: "LSD is a psychedelic drug which occasionally causes psychotic behavior in people who have NOT taken it."
― Timothy Leary

QUOTE: "Psychedelics are illegal not because a loving government is concerned that you may jump out of a third story window. Psychedelics are illegal because they dissolve opinion structures and culturally laid down models of behaviour and information processing. They open you up to the possibility that everything you know is wrong."
― Terence McKenna

QUOTE: "Objects and their functions no longer had any significance. All I perceived was perception itself, the hell of forms and figures devoid of human emotion and detached from the reality of my unreal environment. I was an instrument in a virtual world that constantly renewed its own meaningless image in a living world that was itself perceived outside of nature. And since the appearance of things was no longer definitive but limitless, this paradisiacal awareness freed me from the reality external to myself. The fire and the rose, as it were, became one."
― Federico Fellini

QUOTE: "I took my [mescaline] pill at eleven ... I spent several minutes – or was it several centuries? – not merely gazing at those bamboo legs, but actually being them – or rather being myself in them; or, to be still more accurate (for ‘I’ was not involved in the case, nor in a certain sense were ‘they’) being my Not-self in the Not-self which was the chair."
― Aldous Huxley, The Doors of Perception & Heaven and Hell

QUOTE: "Part of what psychedelics do is they decondition you from cultural values. This is what makes it such a political hot potato. Since all culture is a kind of con game, the most dangerous candy you can hand out is one which causes people to start questioning the rules of the game."
― Terence McKenna

QUOTE: "Terence McKenna pointed out that 'the profundity of [hallucinogenic inebriation] and its potential for a positive feedback into the process of reorganizing the personality should have long ago made psychedelics an indispensable tool for psychotherapy.'"
― Brad Burge, Manifesting Minds: A Review of Psychedelics in Science, Medicine, Sex, and Spirituality

SUBTOPIC: Behavioral

QUOTE: "[Skinner] does not invoke other events, processes, or mechanisms which are hypothesized or invented for the purpose of mediating between behavior and its empirical determinants. This omission is sometimes misconstrued as a denial that mediating mechanisms exist; they obviously do, they are obviously neurological and they are also obviously themselves lawful. ...The argument [against employing them as part of scientific practice] is simplicity itself... [Skinner] considers such theoretical terms unnecessary; they may generate research whose only usefulness is to disconfirm the mediating entity or redefine it without increasing our knowledge of behavior's controlling variables; they can become the absorbing focus of an inquiry and so deflect attention from behavior itself; they can become a ‘refuge from the data’."
― Kenneth MacCorquodale

QUOTE: "Much of human behavior can be explained by watching the wild beasts around us. They are constantly teaching us things about ourselves and the way of the universe, but most people are too blind to watch and listen."
― Suzy Kassem, Rise Up and Salute the Sun: The Writings of Suzy Kassem

QUOTE: "Biological instincts are the key to understanding how every single human being is wired. The marvelous interplay of various brain circuits creates our instinctual reality of the daily life. If you’re conscious about the fact that there lies a complex yet vividly beautiful brain circuit mechanism behind every single impulse of your daily emotions, then you can choose how to react upon each of those impulses. You can thus program your behavioral response in a certain situation."
― Abhijit Naskar, Love Sutra: The Neuroscientific Manual of Love

QUOTE: "Behavior is the end result of a prevailing story in one's mind: change the story and the behavior will change."
― Dr. Jacinta Mpalyenkana

QUOTE: "If we were designed by engineers, as we consumed more, we'd desire less. But our frequent human tragedy is that the more we consume, the hungrier we get. More and faster and stronger. What was an unexpected pleasure yesterday is what we feel entitled to today, and what won't be enough tomorrow."
― Robert Sapolsky

QUOTE: "The fastest way for a person to change or more precisely to change their behavioral pattern is to remove the environmental triggers that support the unwanted behavior."
― Sasha Tenodi, Be Your [Better] Self: A Hands on Approach to Become Who You Always Wanted to Be: Change the Status Quo

QUOTE: "Years of research in psychology has shown that rewards and punishments can be very effective in changing behavior. But, at the same time, they can create an addiction to rewards and punishments."
― Barry Schwartz

QUOTE: "I'm not sure the least educated members of the population are missing out on the advances in medical technology as much as they are adopting harmful behavioral habits that shorten their life."
― S. Jay Olshansky

SUBTOPIC: Cognitive

QUOTE: "A synthesis—an abstraction, chunk, or gist idea—is a neural pattern. Good chunks form neural patterns that resonate, not only within the subject we’re working in, but with other subjects and areas of our lives. The abstraction helps you transfer ideas from one area to another. That’s why great art, poetry, music, and literature can be so compelling. When we grasp the chunk, it takes on a new life in our own minds—we form ideas that enhance and enlighten the neural patterns we already possess, allowing us to more readily see and develop other related patterns.
 Once we have created a chunk as a neural pattern, we can more easily pass that chunked pattern to others, as Cajal and other great artists, poets, scientists, and writers have done for millennia, Once other people grasp that chunk, not only can they use it, but also they can more easily create similar chunks that apply to other areas in their lives—an important part of the creative process."
― Barbara Oakley, A Mind for Numbers: How to Excel at Math and Science

QUOTE: "We must realise that cognitive hygiene is as important subject as oral hygiene for healthy and happy existence."
― Aditya Ajmera

QUOTE: "There is a fine line deep within the mind that makes self-belief and confidence, the defining elements of success and failure in any circumstance. How we learn to activate them without running the risk of lying to ourselves is the key that unlocks the superhuman lying dormant within us."
― David Amerland, The Sniper Mind: Eliminate Fear, Deal with Uncertainty, and Make Better Decisions

QUOTE: "We do not perceive what is ‘out there,’ rather we perceive what is ‘in here.’ Our senses can only inform us of their own status. They can inform us of the electrical status of neurons or the physical or the chemical status of the receptors. The outside world is never taken into our consciousness. The outside world is rather our own creation, psychologically synthesized from the mass of sensations that envelope us. In many respects, the ultimate question that perception must ask was stated by John Stuart Mill in 1865. He asked, ‘What is it we mean, or what is it which leads us to say, that the objects we perceive are external to us, and not a part of our own thoughts?’ That remains, perhaps, the ultimate, unresolved perceptual puzzle."
― Stanley Coren, Sensation and Perception

QUOTE: "Why settle for thinking like a human if you can be a god."
― Garry Kasparov, Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins

QUOTE: "The multiplication force of technology on cognitive differences is massive."
― Jordan Peterson

QUOTE: "Your value system determines the direction of your perception."
― Jordan Peterson

QUOTE: "Cognitive psychology has shown that the mind best understands facts when they are woven into a conceptual fabric, such as a narrative, mental map, or intuitive theory. Disconnected facts in the mind are like unlinked pages on the Web: They might as well not exist."
― Steven Pinker

QUOTE: "Cognitive therapy is based on the idea that when you change the way you think, you can change the way you feel and behave. In other words, if we can learn to think about other people in a more positive and realistic way, it will be far easier to resolve conflicts and develop rewarding personal and professional relationships."
― David D. Burns

QUOTE: "Our thoughts do not actually exist; they are only pictures. A great error was made at the end of the last human developmental period when existence was equated with thinking. 'Cogito ergo sum' is the greatest error ever placed at the head of the modern world view."
― Rudolf Steiner

SUBTOPIC: Developmental

QUOTE: "It still remains unrecognised, that to bring a child into existence without a fair prospect of being able, not only to provide food for its body, but instruction and training for its mind, is a moral crime, both against the unfortunate offspring and against society; and that if the parent does not fulfil this obligation, the State ought to see it fulfilled, at the charge, as far as possible, of the parent."
― John Stuart Mill, On Liberty

QUOTE: "We do not get to choose how we start out in life. We do not get to choose the day we are born or the family we are born into, what we are named at birth, what country we are born in, and we do not get to choose our ancestry. All these things are predetermined by a higher power. By the time you are old enough to start making decisions for yourself, a lot of things in your life are already in place. It’s important, therefore, that you focus on the future, the only thing that you can change."
― Idowu Koyenikan, Wealth for All: Living a Life of Success at the Edge of Your Ability

QUOTE: "In genetic epistemology, as in developmental psychology, too, there is never an absolute beginning."
― Jean Piaget

QUOTE: "Far too often, children with developmental disorders are diagnosed solely on the basis of their observable behavior, slotted into broad diagnostic pigeonholes and provided generalized treatments that may not always meet their specific needs."
― Aditi Shankardass

QUOTE: "The words with which a child’s heart is poisoned, whether through malice or through ignorance, remain branded in his memory, and sooner or later they burn his soul."
― Carlos Ruiz Zafón, The Shadow of the Wind

QUOTE: "Faith can be very very dangerous, and deliberately to implant it into the vulnerable mind of an innocent child is a grievous wrong."
― Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion

QUOTE: "Let children alone... the education of habit is successful in so far as it enables the mother to let her children alone, not teasing them with perpetual commands and directions - a running fire of Do and Don’t ; but letting them go their own way and grow, having first secured that they will go the right way and grow to fruitful purpose."
― Charlotte Mason

QUOTE: "The only thing you have to do to help children is restore their ability to create their own universe."
― Meir Ezra

QUOTE: "The child's intuition is the adult's sixth sense of getting rid of limiting beliefs."
― Alan Maiccon

SUBTOPIC: Intelligence

QUOTE: "Besides our eyes, skin and the other senses through which we receive the shadows of the exterior reality, we have a 'mental eye' (intelligence) with which we can perceive reality as it is."
― Jesús Zamora-Bonilla, Galloping with Light - Einstein, Relativity, and Folklore

QUOTE: "For I consider brains far superior to money in every way. You may have noticed that if one has money without brains, he cannot use it to his advantage; but if one has brains without money, they will enable him to live comfortably to the end of his days."
― L. Frank Baum, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz

QUOTE: "The measure of intelligence is the ability to change."
― Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "An intellectual? Yes. And never deny it. An intellectual is someone whose mind watches itself. I like this, because I am happy to be both halves, the watcher and the watched. ‘Can they be brought together?’ This is a practical question. We must get down to it. ‘I despise intelligence’ really means: ‘I cannot bear my doubts.’"
― Albert Camus

QUOTE: "A thinker sees his own actions as experiments and questions--as attempts to find out something. Success and failure are for him answers above all."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "The ability to observe without evaluating is the highest form of intelligence."
― J. Krishnamurti

QUOTE: "A stupid man's report of what a clever man says can never be accurate, because he unconsciously translates what he hears into something he can understand."
― Bertrand Russell, A History of Western Philosophy

QUOTE: "Education is no substitute for intelligence."
― Frank Herbert

QUOTE: "The advancement and diffusion of knowledge is the only guardian of true liberty."
― James Madison

QUOTE: "The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function."
― F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Crack-Up

QUOTE: "The only means of strengthening one's intellect is to make up one's mind about nothing -- to let the mind be a thoroughfare for all thoughts."
― John Keats

QUOTE: "The IQ and the life expectancy of the average American recently passed each other in opposite directions."
― George Carlin

QUOTE: "The scientist does not study nature because it is useful to do so. He studies it because he takes pleasure in it, and he takes pleasure in it because it is beautiful. If nature were not beautiful it would not be worth knowing, and life would not be worth living. I am not speaking, of course, of the beauty which strikes the senses, of the beauty of qualities and appearances. I am far from despising this, but it has nothing to do with science. What I mean is that more intimate beauty which comes from the harmonious order of its parts, and which a pure intelligence can grasp."
― Henri Poincaré, Science and Method

QUOTE: "I will not dumb myself down to make someone else more comfortable with their ignorance."
― Kelli Jae Baeli

QUOTE: "People do not like to think. If one thinks, one must reach conclusions. Conclusions are not always pleasant."
― Helen Keller

SUBTOPIC: Mind / Consciousness

QUOTE: "A mind is a simulation that simulates itself."
― Erol Ozan

QUOTE: "You are deluded if you think that the world around you is a physical construct separate from your own mind."
― Kevin Michel, Moving Through Parallel Worlds To Achieve Your Dreams

QUOTE: "Perhaps consciousness arises when the brain's simulation of the world becomes so complex that it must include a model of itself."
— Richard Dawkins

QUOTE: "Where there is no consciousness, there is no time."
― Wayne Gerard Trotman, Kaya Abaniah and the Father of the Forest

QUOTE: "The degree to which your Consciousness expands, is the degree to which you understand yourself and the universe."
― Gina Charles

QUOTE: "Reality is in the mind of the eye."
― Stanley Victor Paskavich

QUOTE: "The existence of consciousness is both one of the most familiar and one of the most astounding things about the world. No conception of the natural order that does not reveal it as something to be expected can aspire even to the outline of completeness. And if physical science, whatever it may have to say about the origin of life, leaves us necessarily in the dark about consciousness, that shows that it cannot provide the basic form of intelligibility for this world. There must be a very different way in which things as they are make sense, and that includes the physical world, since the problem cannot be quarantined in the mind."
― Thomas Nagel, Mind and Cosmos: Why the Materialist Neo-Darwinian Conception of Nature Is Almost Certainly False

QUOTE: "We gain from the new science of mind not only insights into ourselves - how we perceive, learn, remember, feel, believe and act - but also a new perspective of ourselves and our fellow human beings in the context of biological evolution."
― Abhijit Naskar, Love, God & Neurons: Memoir of a scientist who found himself by getting lost

QUOTE: "Every now and then a man's mind is stretched by a new idea or sensation, and never shrinks back to its former dimensions."
― Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr., Autocrat of the Breakfast Table

QUOTE: "People will do anything, no matter how absurd, in order to avoid facing their own souls. One does not become enlightened by imagining figures of light, but by making the darkness conscious."
― Carl Jung, Psychology and Alchemy

QUOTE: "We are the cosmos made conscious and life is the means by which the universe understands itself."
― Brian Cox

QUOTE: "We have been to the moon, we have charted the depths of the ocean and the heart of the atom, but we have a fear of looking inward to ourselves because we sense that is where all the contradictions flow together."
― Terence McKenna

QUOTE: "Consciousness cannot be accounted for in physical terms. For consciousness is absolutely fundamental. It cannot be accounted for in terms of anything else."
― Erwin Schrödinger

QUOTE: "Properly speaking, the unconscious is the real psychic; its inner nature is just as unknown to us as the reality of the external world, and it is just as imperfectly reported to us through the data of consciousness as is the external world through the indications of our sensory organs."
― Sigmund Freud, The Interpretation of Dreams

QUOTE: "Evolution has no foresight. Complex machinery develops its own agendas. Brains — cheat. Feedback loops evolve to promote stable heartbeats and then stumble upon the temptation of rhythm and music. The rush evoked by fractal imagery, the algorithms used for habitat selection, metastasize into art. Thrills that once had to be earned in increments of fitness can now be had from pointless introspection. Aesthetics rise unbidden from a trillion dopamine receptors, and the system moves beyond modeling the organism. It begins to model the very process of modeling. It consumes evermore computational resources, bogs itself down with endless recursion and irrelevant simulations. Like the parasitic DNA that accretes in every natural genome, it persists and proliferates and produces nothing but itself. Metaprocesses bloom like cancer, and awaken, and call themselves I."
― Peter Watts, Blindsight

QUOTE: "‘It's a thought,’ I said with a grin.
 ‘That's exactly what it is, Dan - a thought - no more real than the shadow of a shadow. Consciousness is not In the body; the body is In Consciousness. And you Are that Consciousness - no the phantom mind that troubles you so. You are the body, but you are everything else, too. That is what your visions revealed to you. Only the mind resists change. When you relax mindless into the body, you are happy and content and free, sensing no separation. Immortality is Already yours, but not in the same way you imagined or hope for. You have been immortal since before you were born and will be long after the body dissolves. The body is in Consciousness; never born; never dies; only changes. The mind - your ego, personal beliefs, history, and identity - is all that ends at death. And who needs it?’ Socrates leaned back into his chair.
 ‘I'm not sure all of that sank in.’
 ‘Of course not.’ He laughed. ‘Words mean little unless you realize the truth of it yourself. And when you do, you'll be free at last.’"
― Dan Millman, Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives

QUOTE: "Who can say if the thoughts you have in your mind as you read these words are the same thoughts I had in my mind as I typed them? We are different, you and I, and the qualia of our consciousnesses are as divergent as two stars at the ends of the universe.
 
 And yet, whatever has been lost in translation in the long journey of my thoughts through the maze of civilization to your mind, I think you do understand me, and you think you do understand me. Our minds managed to touch, if but briefly and imperfectly.
 
 Does that thought not make the universe seem just a bit kinder, a bit brighter, a bit warmer and more human?
 
 We live for such miracles."
― Ken Liu, The Paper Menagerie and Other Stories

QUOTE: "Consciousness is a mystery that faces the mystery of potential and transforms it into actuality. We do that with every choice we make. Our choices determine the destiny of the world. By making a choice, you alter the structure of reality."
― Jordan B. Peterson

QUOTE: "True philosophy must start from the most immediate and comprehensive fact of consciousness: 'I am life that wants to live, in the midst of life that wants to live.’"
― Albert Schweitzer

QUOTE: "The only reality we can ever truly know is that of our perceptions, our own consciousness, while that consciousness, and thus our entire reality, is made of nothing but signs and symbols. Nothing but language.
 Even God requires language before conceiving the Universe. See Genesis: ‘In the beginning was the Word.’"
― Alan Moore, Promethea, Vol. 5

QUOTE: "You are not limited to this body, to this mind, or to this reality—you are a limitless ocean of Consciousness, imbued with infinite potential. You are existence itself."
― Joseph P. Kauffman, The Answer Is YOU: A Guide to Mental, Emotional, and Spiritual Freedom

QUOTE: "It's clearly a crisis of two things: of consciousness and conditioning. We have the technological power, the engineering skills to save our planet, to cure disease, to feed the hungry, to end war; But we lack the intellectual vision, the ability to change our minds. We must decondition ourselves from 10,000 years of bad behavior. And, it's not easy."
― Terence McKenna

QUOTE: "The snake which cannot cast its skin has to die. As well the minds which are prevented from changing their opinions; they cease to be mind."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "The energy of the mind is the essence of life."
― Aristotle, The Philosophy of Aristotle

QUOTE: "Most people believe the mind to be a mirror, more or less accurately reflecting the world outside them, not realizing on the contrary that the mind is itself the principal element of creation."
― rabindranath tagore

SUBTOPIC: Neuroscience

QUOTE: "Recent brain scans have shed light on how the brain simulates the future. These simulations are done mainly in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the CEO of the brain, using memories of the past. On one hand, simulations of the future may produce outcomes that are desirable and pleasurable, in which case the pleasure centers of the brain light up (in the nucleus accumbens and the hypothalamus). On the other hand, these outcomes may also have a downside to them, so the orbitofrontal cortex kicks in to warn us of possible dancers. There is a struggle, then, between different parts of the brain concerning the future, which may have desirable and undesirable outcomes. Ultimately it is the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that mediates between these and makes the final decisions. (Some neurologists have pointed out that this struggle resembles, in a crude way, the dynamics between Freud's ego, id, and superego.)"
― Michio Kaku, The Future of the Mind: The Scientific Quest to Understand, Enhance, and Empower the Mind

QUOTE: "How can a three-pound mass of jelly that you can hold in your palm imagine angels, contemplate the meaning of infinity, and even question its own place in the cosmos? Especially awe inspiring is the fact that any single brain, including yours, is made up of atoms that were forged in the hearts of countless, far-flung stars billions of years ago. These particles drifted for eons and light-years until gravity and change brought them together here, now. These atoms now form a conglomerate- your brain- that can not only ponder the very stars that gave it birth but can also think about its own ability to think and wonder about its own ability to wonder. With the arrival of humans, it has been said, the universe has suddenly become conscious of itself. This, truly, it the greatest mystery of all."
― V.S. Ramachandran, The Tell-Tale Brain: A Neuroscientist's Quest for What Makes Us Human

QUOTE: "Any man could, if he were so inclined, be the sculptor of his own brain."
― Santiago Ramon y Cajal, Advice for a Young Investigator

QUOTE: "Imagine for a moment that we are nothing but the product of billions of years of molecules coming together and ratcheting up through natural selection, that we are composed only of highways of fluids and chemicals sliding along roadways within billions of dancing cells, that trillions of synaptic conversations hum in parallel, that this vast egg-like fabric of micron-thin circuitry runs algorithms undreamt of in modern science, and that these neural programs give rise to our decision making, loves, desires, fears, and aspirations. To me, that understanding would be a numinous experience, better than anything ever proposed in anyone's holy text."
― David Eagleman, Incognito: The Secret Lives of the Brain

QUOTE: "If our well-being depends upon the interaction between events in our brains and events in the world, and there are better and worse ways to secure it, then some cultures will tend to produce lives that are more worth living than others; some political persuasions will be more enlightened than others; and some world views will be mistaken in ways that cause needless human misery."
― Sam Harris, The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values

QUOTE: "The neural processes underlying that which we call creativity have nothing to do with rationality. That is to say, if we look at how the brain generates creativity, we will see that it is not a rational process at all; creativity is not born out of reasoning."
― Rodolfo R. Llinás, I of the Vortex: From Neurons to Self

QUOTE: "Understanding the physiological and neurological features of spiritual experiences should not be interpreted as an attempt to discredit their reality or explain them away. Rather, it demonstrates their physical existence as a fundamental, shared part of human nature. Spiritual experiences cannot be considered irrational, since we have seen that, given their physiological basis, experiencers' descriptions of them are perfectly rational... All human perceptions of material reality can ultimately be documented as chemical reactions in our neurobiology; all our sensations, thoughts, and memories are ultimately reducible to chemistry, yet we feel no need to deny the existence of the material world; it is not less real because our perceptions of it are biologically based... It is not rational to assume that the spiritual reality of core experiences is any less real than the more scientifically documentable material reality."
― Sabina Magliocco, Witching Culture: Folklore and Neo-Paganism in America

QUOTE: "Maybe the human brain is an object beyond the reach of metaphor, for the simple reason that it is the only object capable of creating metaphors to describe itself. There really is nothing else like it. The human brain creates the human mind, and then the human mind tries to underhand the human brain, however long it takes and whatever the cost."
― Luke Dittrich, Patient H.M.: A Story of Memory, Madness, and Family Secrets

QUOTE: "Our metaphors for the operation of the brain are frequently drawn from the production line. We think of the brain as a glorified sausage machine, taking in information from the senses, processing it and regurgitating it in a different form, as thoughts or actions. The digital computer reinforces this idea because it is quite explicitly a machine that does to information what a sausage machine does to pork. Indeed, the brain was the original inspiration and metaphor for the development of the digital computer, and early computers were often described as 'giant brains'. Unfortunately, neuroscientists have sometimes turned this analogy on its head, and based their models of brain function on the workings of the digital computer (for example by assuming that memory is separate and distinct from processing, as it is in a computer). This makes the whole metaphor dangerously self-reinforcing."
― Steve Grand, Creation: Life and How to Make It

QUOTE: "Neuroscience can be seen as offering metaphors that point in a general direction, but don't exactly match anyone's individual experience."
― Bonnie Badenoch, Being a Brain-Wise Therapist: A Practical Guide to Interpersonal Neurobiology

QUOTE: "By clarifying the brain’s representation method all things (of the mind) become simple and clear, and even the conglomerate of psychology gets unified and becomes almost obvious – a direct result of this method, which is the physics of the mind."
― U. Notmi, The Path to the Boat - Really So

QUOTE: "Where attention goes, neural firing flows, and neural connection grows."
― Daniel J. Siegel

SUBTOPIC: Personality

QUOTE: "'Why am I as I am?' To understand that of any person, his whole life, from Birth, must be reviewed. All of our experiences fuse into our personality. Everything that ever happened to us is an ingredient."
― Malcolm X, The Autobiography of Malcolm X

QUOTE: "Every instinct that is found in any man is in all men. The strength of the emotion may not be so overpowering, the barriers against possession not so insurmountable, the urge to accomplish the desire less keen. With some, inhibitions and urges may be neutralized by other tendencies. But with every being the primal emotions are there. All men have an emotion to kill; when they strongly dislike someone they involuntarily wish he was dead. I have never killed anyone, but I have read some obituary notices with great satisfaction."
― Clarence Darrow, The Story of My Life

QUOTE: "I want freedom for the full expression of my personality."
― Mahatma Gandhi, The Essential Gandhi: An Anthology of His Writings on His Life, Work, and Ideas

QUOTE: "I never could bear the idea of anyone's expecting something from me. It always made me want to do just the opposite."
― Jean-Paul Sartre, No Exit

QUOTE: "If you want to discover the true character of a person, you have only to observe what they are passionate about."
― Shannon L. Alder

QUOTE: "It’s a good thing when a man is different from your image of him. It shows he isn’t a type. If he were, it would be the end of him as a man. But if you can’t place him in a category, it means that at least a part of him is what a human being ought to be. He has risen above himself, he has a grain of immortality."
― Boris Pasternak, Doctor Zhivago

QUOTE: "The fact that a man who goes his own way ends in ruin means nothing ... He must obey his own law, as if it were a daemon whispering to him of new and wonderful paths ... There are not a few who are called awake by the summons of the voice, whereupon they are at once set apart from the others, feeling themselves confronted with a problem about which the others know nothing. In most cases it is impossible to explain to the others what has happened, for any understanding is walled off by impenetrable prejudices. ‘You are no different from anybody else,’ they will chorus or, ‘there's no such thing,’ and even if there is such a thing, it is immediately branded as ‘morbid’...He is at once set apart and isolated, as he has resolved to obey the law that commands him from within. ‘His own law!’ everybody will cry. But he knows better: it is the law...The only meaningful life is a life that strives for the individual realization — absolute and unconditional— of its own particular law ... To the extent that a man is untrue to the law of his being ... he has failed to realize his own life's meaning."
― Carl Jung

QUOTE: "The whole value of solitude depends upon oneself; it may be a sanctuary or a prison, a haven of repose or a place of punishment, a heaven or a hell, as we ourselves make it."
― John Lubbock, Peace and Happiness

SUBTOPIC: Social

QUOTE: "The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "I hate who steals my solitude without, in exchange, offering me true company."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "The inception of love has always been for self. We must actualize self-love before portraying it outwards. We must overcome the despair attached to the loneliness before finding other as a companion, or else it’ll be a mere act of escapism which foster dependency."
― Aman Tiwari, Memoir: The Cathartic Night

QUOTE: "The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends."
― Friedrich Nietzsche

QUOTE: "When many people become bonded into one self, as an endogroup, an artificial person is created as an ideal. This endogroup ideal, or endo-ideal becomes the group. Its identity is adopted by every member of the group and the individuals also become the endogroup. The group identity subsumes the self for all except the endo-ideal, creating a special subset of reality which here we will call an endoreality."
― Heather Marsh, The Creation of Me, Them and Us

QUOTE: "The worst thing about social conditioning is that it makes an individual of that society genuinely believe that he or she is being moral, while in reality, the person may be committing the worst kind of immoral atrocities ever."
― Abhijit Naskar, Morality Absolute

QUOTE: "The greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own."
― Benjamin Disraeli

QUOTE: "Progress in social psychology is necessary to counteract the dangers which arise from the progress in physics and medicine."
― Erich Fromm, Escape from Freedom

QUOTE: "Anybody can sympathise with the sufferings of a friend, but it requires a very fine nature to sympathise with a friend's success."
― Oscar Wilde

MAINTOPIC: Technology

SUBTOPIC: Artificial Intelligence

QUOTE: "If a machine ever gains awareness, it will be not due to our careful programming, but due to an unforeseeable anomaly."
― Abhijit Naskar, The Gospel of Technology

QUOTE: "I believe that at the end of the century the use of words and general educated opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines thinking without expecting to be contradicted."
― Alan Turing, Computing machinery and intelligence

QUOTE: "How ironic, then, and how poetic, that humankind may have created the Creator out of want for one. Man creates God, who then creates man. Is that not the perfect circle of life? But then, if that turns out to be the case, who is created in whose image?"
― Neal Shusterman, Thunderhead

QUOTE: "A powerful AI system tasked with ensuring your safety might imprison you at home. If you asked for happiness, it might hook you up to a life support and ceaselessly stimulate your brain's pleasure centers. If you don't provide the AI with a very big library of preferred behaviors or an ironclad means for it to deduce what behavior you prefer, you'll be stuck with whatever it comes up with. And since it's a highly complex system, you may never understand it well enough to make sure you've got it right."
― James Barrat, Our Final Invention: Artificial Intelligence and the End of the Human Era

QUOTE: "Humans are limited in the attention, kindness and compassion that they can expend to others, but AI based compassionate robots can channel virtually unlimited resources into building compassionate relationships in the society."
― Amit Ray, Compassionate Artificial Intelligence: Frameworks and Algorithms

QUOTE: "If an AI possessed any one of these skills—social abilities, technological development, economic ability—at a superhuman level, it is quite likely that it would quickly come to dominate our world in one way or another. And as we’ve seen, if it ever developed these abilities to the human level, then it would likely soon develop them to a superhuman level. So we can assume that if even one of these skills gets programmed into a computer, then our world will come to be dominated by AIs or AI-empowered humans."
― Stuart Armstrong, Smarter Than Us: The Rise of Machine Intelligence

QUOTE: "Cannot you see, cannot all you lecturers see, that it is we that are dying, and that down here the only thing that really lives is the Machine? We created the Machine, to do our will, but we cannot make it do our will now. It has robbed us of the sense of space and of the sense of touch, it has blurred every human relation and narrowed down love to a carnal act, it has paralysed our bodies and our wills, and now it compels us to worship it. The Machine develops — but not on our lines. The Machine proceeds — but not to our goal. We only exist as the blood corpuscles that course through its arteries, and if it could work without us, it would let us die."
― E.M. Forster, The Machine Stops

QUOTE: "A doctor, lawyer, accountant, dentist, or pharmacist will go through years of training and then do the same thing over and over again in slightly different variations. Much of the training is to socialize us into people who can sit still for long periods and behave and operate consistently and reliably....Basically, we are being trained and prepped to become more like machines. But we'll never be as good as the real thing."
― Andrew Yang

QUOTE: "The Absolute Ignorance of evolution by natural selection is indeed capable of creating not just daisies and fish but also human beings who in turn have the competence to build cities and theories and poems and airplanes, and computers, which in turn could in principle achieve Artificial Intelligence with even higher levels of creative skill than their human creators."
― Daniel C. Dennett, From Bacteria to Bach and Back: The Evolution of Minds

QUOTE: "The only limit to AI is human imagination."
― Chris Duffey, Superhuman Innovation: Transforming Business with Artificial Intelligence

QUOTE: "When fervent human curiosity is abandoned to the power of AI, the intrinsic executive function, cognitive control, interrogation, and discord will rapidly weaken to the surrender of the narrative/reality created by AI."
― Tamie M. Santiago

QUOTE: "Let an ultraintelligent machine be defined as a machine that can far surpass all the intellectual activities of any man however clever. Since the design of machines is one of these intellectual activities, an ultraintelligent machine could design even better machines; there would then unquestionably be an ‘intelligence explosion,’ and the intelligence of man would be left far behind. Thus the first ultraintelligent machine is the last invention that man need ever make, provided that the machine is docile enough to tell us how to keep it under control."
― Nick Bostrom, Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies

QUOTE: "The human condition is plagued with a labyrinth of shortcomings, frailties and limitations that hinder man from reaching his fullest potential. Therefore, it only makes sense that we find ourselves at the next phase in human evolution where restricted man merges with the infinite possibilities of hyper-evolving technologies. This techno-human transmutation will prove to be ‘the’ quantum leap in human progression. The harmonization of technologically extending oneself, consciousness, artificial intelligence and machine learning will reverse the failures of genetic predisposition and limitation."
― James Scott, Senior Fellow, Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology

QUOTE: "AI is the transformer of civilization."
― Toba Beta

QUOTE: "We should therefore welcome with open arms computers that are vastly more powerful than our brains, safe in the knowledge that our job is exponentially easier than theirs. They have to solve the problems; we just have to check that they did so to our satisfaction. AIs will think fast what we think slow, and the world will be the better for it. I, for one, welcome our new robot underlings."
― Pedro Domingos, The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World

QUOTE: "The real question is not whether machines think but whether men do. The mystery which surrounds a thinking machine already surrounds a thinking man."
― B.F. Skinner, Contingencies Of Reinforcement: A Theoretical Analysis

QUOTE: "I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, I’d probably say that. So we need to be very careful."
— Elon Musk

QUOTE: "The AI does not hate you, nor does it love you, but you are made out of atoms which it can use for something else."
― Eliezer Yudkowsky

SUBTOPIC: Autonomous Vehicles

QUOTE: "Self-driving cars are the natural extension of active safety and obviously something we should do."
― Elon Musk

QUOTE: "Google is working on self-driving cars, and they seem to work.  People are so bad at driving cars that computers don’t have to be that good to be much better."
― Marc Andreesen

QUOTE: "The key with autonomous is the whole ecosystem. One of the keys to having a truly fully autonomous is vehicles talking to each other."
― Mary Barra, GM CEO

QUOTE: "The Tesla electric semi could change the trucking industry the same way the iPhone changed the cell phone industry."
― Dave Waters

QUOTE: "I think we see the merging of several worlds, the tech industry, the internet and the automotive industry. These two worlds merging is like a smart phone on wheels, or you can say it’s a car that has many of the capabilities of smartphones and computers and so on."
― Dieter Zetsche

QUOTE: "When Henry Ford made cheap, reliable cars, people said ‘nah, what’s wrong with the horse?’ That was a huge bet he made, and it worked." 
― Elon Musk

QUOTE: "Once you trust a self-driving car with your life, you pretty much will trust Artificial Intelligence with anything."
― Dave Waters

QUOTE: "If you recognize that self-driving cars are going to prevent car accidents, AI will be responsible for reducing one of the leading causes of death in the world."
― Mark Zuckerberg

QUOTE: "If, in writing some article that’s negative, you effectively dissuade people from using an autonomous vehicle, you’re killing people."
― Elon Musk

QUOTE: "This decade, for the auto industry, will be defined by the automation of the vehicle. From our standpoint, we see autonomous vehicles as the potential to have the same societal impact that Ford’s moving assembly line did more than 100 years ago."
― Mark Fields.

SUBTOPIC: Biotechnology

QUOTE: "Eventually, we may reach a point when it will be impossible to disconnect from this all-knowing network even for a moment. Disconnection will mean death. If medical hopes are realised, future people will incorporate into their bodies a host of biometric devices, bionic organs and nano-robots, which will monitor our health and defend us from infections, illnesses and damage. Yet these devices will have to be online 24/7, both in order to be updated with the latest medical news, and in order to protect them from the new plagues of cyberspace. Just as my home computer is constantly attacked by viruses, worms and Trojan horses, so will be my pacemaker, my hearing aid and my nanotech immune system. If I don’t update my body’s anti-virus program regularly, I will wake up one day to discover that the millions of nano-robots coursing through my veins are now controlled by a North Korean hacker."
― Yuval Noah Harari, Homo Deus: A History of Tomorrow

QUOTE: "Our world is built on biology and once we begin to understand it, it then becomes a technology."
― Ryan Bethencourt

QUOTE: "It's not the machines you need to fear. It's the people. Other people. The augmented men and women that will come afterwards. The children who use this technology you are creating will not care what it does to your norms and traditions. They will utilize this gift to its fullest potential and leave you begging in the dust. They will break your hearts, murder the natural world, and endanger their own souls. You will rue the day that you created us."
― Dave Pryor

QUOTE: "In the coming decades, it is likely that we will see more Internet-like revolutions, in which technology steals a march on politics. Artificial intelligence and biotechnology might soon overhaul our societies and economies – and our bodies and minds too – but they are hardly a blip on our political radar. Our current democratic structures just cannot collect and process the relevant data fast enough, and most voters don’t understand biology and cybernetics well enough to form any pertinent opinions. Hence traditional democratic politics loses control of events, and fails to provide us with meaningful visions for the future.
 That doesn’t mean we will go back to twentieth-century-style dictatorships. Authoritarian regimes seem to be equally overwhelmed by the pace of technological development and the speed and volume of the data flow. In the twentieth century, dictators had grand visions for the future. Communists and fascists alike sought to completely destroy the old world and build a new world in its place. Whatever you think about Lenin, Hitler or Mao, you cannot accuse them of lacking vision. Today it seems that leaders have a chance to pursue even grander visions. While communists and Nazis tried to create a new society and a new human with the help of steam engines and typewriters, today’s prophets could rely on biotechnology and super-computers."
― Yuval Noah Harari, Homo Deus: A History of Tomorrow

QUOTE: "The biotechnology wave is similar to the information technology wave of the 1980s and 1990s."
― Dietmar Hopp

QUOTE: "I think the biggest innovations of the 21st century will be at the intersection of biology and technology. A new era is beginning."
― Steve Jobs

QUOTE: "The rewards for biotechnology are tremendous – to solve disease, eliminate poverty, age gracefully. It sounds so much cooler than Facebook."
― George M. Church

QUOTE: "We must address, individually and collectively, moral and ethical issues raised by cutting-edge research in artificial intelligence and biotechnology, which will enable significant life extension, designer babies, and memory extraction."
― Klaus Schwab

SUBTOPIC: Computing Power

QUOTE: "The number of transistors and resistors on a chip doubles every 24 months."
― Gordon Moore

QUOTE: "Moore's Law is really a thing about human activity, it's about vision, it's about what you're allowed to believe. Because people are really limited by their beliefs, they limit themselves by what they allow themselves to believe about what is possible."
― Carver Mead

QUOTE: "We see incredible opportunity to solve some of the biggest social challenges we have by combining high-performance computing and AI - such as climate change and more."
― Lisa Su

QUOTE: "Items of interest will be located, identified, monitored, and remotely controlled through technologies such as radio-frequency identification, sensor networks, tiny embedded servers, and energy harvesters - all connected to the next-generation internet using abundant, low-cost, and high-power computing."
― David Petraeus

QUOTE: "Cloud computing offers individuals access to data and applications from nearly any point of access to the Internet, offers businesses a whole new way to cut costs for technical infrastructure, and offers big computer companies a potentially giant market for hardware and services."
― Jamais Cascio

QUOTE: "Augmented reality will drive all things like chat, social networking, photos, videos, organizing data, modeling, painting, motion capture, and visual programming. Every form of computing will be combined together and unified in a single platform."
― Tim Sweeney

QUOTE: "By 2020, most home computers will have the computing power of a human brain. That doesn't mean that they are brains, but it means that in terms of raw processing, they can process bits as fast as a brain can. So the question is, how far behind that is the development of a machine that's as smart as we are?"
― Seth Shostak

QUOTE: "A typical smartphone has more computing power than Apollo 11 when it landed a man on the moon."
― Nancy Gibbs

SUBTOPIC: Internet

QUOTE: "The internet itself led him from one word to the next, giving links, pointing out. When it didn’t know something it tactfully kept quiet or stubbornly showed him the same pages, ad nauseam. Then Kunicki had the impression that he had just landed at the border of the known world, at the wall, at the membrane of the heavenly firmament. There wasn’t any way to break through it with his head and look through. The internet is a fraud. It promises so much—that it will execute your every command, that it will find you what you’re looking for; execution, fulfillment, reward. But in essence that promise is a kind of bait, because you immediately fall into a trance, into hypnosis. The paths quickly diverge, double and multiply, and you go down them, still chasing an aim that will now get blurry and undergo some transformations. You lose the ground beneath your feet, the place where you started from just gets forgotten, and your aim finally vanishes from sight, disappears in the passage of more and more pages, businesses that always promise more than they can give, shamelessly pretending that under the flat plane of the screen there is some cosmos. But nothing could be more deceptive, dear Kunicki. What are you, Kunicki, looking for? What are you aiming at? You feel like spreading out your arms and plunging into it, into that abyss, but there is nothing more deceptive: the landscape turns out to be a wallpaper, you can’t go any farther."
― Olga Tokarczuk, Flights

QUOTE: "The level of intelligence has been tremendously increased, because people are thinking and communicating in terms of screens, and not in lettered books. Much of the real action is taking place in what is called cyberspace. People have learned how to boot up, activate, and transmit their brains.
  
 Essentially, there’s a universe inside your brain. The number of connections possible inside your brain is limitless. And as people have learned to have more managerial and direct creative access to their brains, they have also developed matrices or networks of people that communicate electronically. There are direct brain/computer link-ups. You can just jack yourself in and pilot your brain around in cyber-electronic space."
― Timothy Leary, Chaos & Cyber Culture

QUOTE: "All of a sudden, we’ve lost a lot of control,’ he said. ‘We can’t turn off our internet; we can’t turn off our smartphones; we can’t turn off our computers. You used to ask a smart person a question. Now, who do you ask? It starts with g-o, and it’s not God…"
― Steve Wozniak

QUOTE: "Cyberspace. A consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathematical concepts... A graphic representation of data abstracted from banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of the mind, clusters and constellations of data. Like city lights, receding..."
― William Gibson, Neuromancer

QUOTE: "Most neuroses and some psychoses can be traced to the unnecessary and unhealthy habit of daily wallowing in the troubles and sins of five billion strangers."
― Robert A. Heinlein, Stranger in a Strange Land

QUOTE: "The Internet is the first thing that humanity has built that humanity doesn't understand, the largest experiment in anarchy that we have ever had."
― Eric Schmidt

QUOTE: "It is the greatest truth of our age: Information is not knowledge."
― Caleb Carr

QUOTE: "You can think of the entire Internet as a place where ideas embodied in cyberspace are having a war, and it's not much different than the war of gods in heaven, which has been taking place since there's been human beings."
― Jordan Peterson

SUBTOPIC: Internet of Things

QUOTE: "Connected devices and the internet of things will monitor our activities and upload that data. This will be factored into an algorithm to generate an overall score, which can increase or decrease in real-time. People will be able to see their overall fitness going up and down as they’re working out at the gym or eating takeaway pizza and watching Netflix."
― Emmanuel Fombu, The Future of Healthcare: Humans and Machines Partnering for Better Outcomes

QUOTE: "We are striving to engineer the internet of all things in hope to make us healthy, happy and powerful. Yet once the internet of all things is up and running, we might be reduced from engineers to chips then to data and eventually, we might dissolve within the data torrent like a clamp of earth within a gushing river. Dataism, thereby, threatens to do to Homo sapiens what Homo sapiens has done to all other animals. In the course of history, humans have created a global network and evaluated everything according to its function within the network. For thousands of years this boosted human pride and prejudices.
 
 Since humans fulfilled the most important function in the network, it was easy for us to take credit for the network’s achievements and to see ourselves as the apex of creation. The lives and experiences of all other animals were undervalued because they fulfilled far less important functions. And whenever an animal ceased to fulfil any function at all it went extinct. However, once humans loose their functional importance to the network, we’ll discover that we are not the apex of creation after all. The yardsticks that we ourselves have enshrined will condemn us to join the mammoths and the Chinese river dolphins in oblivion. Looking back, humanity will turn out to be just a ripple within the cosmic data flow."
― Yuval Harari, Homo Deus

QUOTE: "The IoT is big news because it ups the ante: ‘Reach out and touch somebody’ is becoming ‘reach out and touch everything’."
— Parker Trewin, Senior Director of Content and Communications, Aria Systems

QUOTE: "If you think that the internet has changed your life, think again. The IoT is about to change it all over again!"
— Brendan O’Brien, Chief Architect & Co-Founder, Aria Systems

QUOTE: "And just like any company that blissfully ignored the Internet at the turn of the century, the ones that dismiss the Internet of Things risk getting left behind."
— Jared Newman

QUOTE: "What the Internet of Things is really about is information technology that can gather its own information. Often what it does with that information is not tell a human being something, it [just] does something."
— Kevin Ashton

QUOTE: "As the Internet of things advances, the very notion of a clear dividing line between reality and virtual reality becomes blurred, sometimes in creative ways."
— Geoff Mulgan

QUOTE: "When we talk about the Internet of Things, it’s not just putting RFID tags on some dumb thing so we smart people know where that dumb thing is. It’s about embedding intelligence so things become smarter and do more than they were proposed to do."
— Nicholas Negroponte

SUBTOPIC: Nanotechnology

QUOTE: "One cubic inch of nanotube circuitry, once fully developed, would be up to one hundred million times more powerful than the human brain."
— Ray Kurzweil

QUOTE: "Incurable diseases will eventually force mankind to justify disruptive nanotech and genetic engineering."
― Toba Beta [Betelgeuse Incident], Betelgeuse Incident: Insiden Bait Al-Jauza

QUOTE: "We cannot rely on trial-and-error approaches to deal with existential risks… We need to vastly increase our investment in developing specific defensive technologies… We are at the critical stage today for biotechnology, and we will reach the stage where we need to directly implement defensive technologies for nanotechnology during the late teen years of this century… A self-replicating pathogen, whether biological or nanotechnology based, could destroy our civilization in a matter of days or weeks."
― Ray Kurzweil, The Singularity is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology

QUOTE: "If the next generation of nanotechnology could be used in medicine to repair organs and tissue from inside the human body, then it could just as easily be programmed to destroy them, making it the ultimate weapon of assassination.
 Imagine clouds of these things flying to their targets to either be breathed in like a virus or ingested with food or drink, and then creating fatal haemorrhages or lesions that lead to death from apparently natural causes."
― K. Valisumbra, Mortlake and Other Stories

QUOTE: "Nanotechnology is the idea that we can create devices and machines all the way down to the nanometer scale, which is a billionth of a meter, about half the width of a human DNA molecule."
― Paul McEuen

QUOTE: "On the molecular scale, you find it’s reasonable to have a machine that does a million steps per second, a mechanical system that works at computer speeds."
― K. Eric Drexler

QUOTE: "The really big difference is that what you make with a molecular machine can be completely precise, down to the tiniest degree of detail that can exist in the world."
― K. Eric Drexler

SUBTOPIC: Philosophy of Technology

QUOTE: "Technology - with all its promise and potential - has gotten so far beyond human control that it’s threatening the future of humankind."
― Kim J. Vicente

QUOTE: "Your brain may give birth to any technology, but other brains will decide whether the technology thrives. The number of possible technologies is infinite, and only a few pass this test of affinity with human nature."
― Robert Wright, Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny

QUOTE: "It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity."
— Albert Einstein

QUOTE: "The production of too many useful things results in too many useless people."
― Karl Marx

QUOTE: "This is the whole point of technology. It creates an appetite for immortality on the one hand. It threatens universal extinction on the other. Technology is lust removed from nature. - Murray (WN 285)"
― Don DeLillo, White Noise: Text and Criticism

QUOTE: "Technology is destructive only in the hands of people who do not realize that they are one and the same process as the universe. "
― Alan Watts

QUOTE: "Modern technology has become a total phenomenon for civilization, the defining force of a new social order in which efficiency is no longer an option but a necessity imposed on all human activity."
― Jacques Ellul

QUOTE: "First we build the tools, then they build us."
― Marshall McLuhan

QUOTE: "The intentions of the cybernetic totalist tribe are good. They are simply following a path that was blazed in earlier times by well-meaning Freudians and Marxists - and I don't mean that in a pejorative way. I'm thinking of the earliest incarnations of Marxism, for instance, before
Stalinism and Maoism killed millions.
  
 Movements associated with Freud and Marx both claimed foundations in rationality and the scientific understanding of the world. Both perceived themselves to be at war with the weird, manipulative fantasies of religions. And yet both invented their own fantasies that were just as weird.
  
 The same thing is happening again. A self-proclaimed materialist movement that attempts to base itself on science starts to look like a religion rather quickly. It soon presents its own eschatology and its own revelations about what is really going on - portentous events that no one but the initiated can appreciate. The Singularity and the noosphere, the idea that a collective consciousness emerges from all the users on the web, echo Marxist social determinism and Freud's calculus of perversions. We rush ahead of skeptical, scientific inquiry at our peril, just like the Marxists and Freudians."
― Jaron Lanier, You Are Not a Gadget

QUOTE: "It's not technology that limits us. We're the limitation. Our technology is an expression of our intelligence and creativity, so the limitations of our technology are a reflection of our own limitations. We can't fundamentally advance technology until we fundamentally advance ourselves."
― Christian Cantrell

SUBTOPIC: Robotics

QUOTE: "The Three Laws of Robotics:
 1: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm;
 2: A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law;
 3: A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law;
 The Zeroth Law: A robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm."
― Isaac Asimov, I, Robot

QUOTE: "Whether we are based on carbon or on silicon makes no fundamental difference; we should each be treated with appropriate respect."
― Arthur C. Clarke, 2010: Odyssey Two

QUOTE: "Why give a robot an order to obey orders—why aren't the original orders enough? Why command a robot not to do harm—wouldn't it be easier never to command it to do harm in the first place? Does the universe contain a mysterious force pulling entities toward malevolence, so that a positronic brain must be programmed to withstand it? Do intelligent beings inevitably develop an attitude problem? (…) Now that computers really have become smarter and more powerful, the anxiety has waned. Today's ubiquitous, networked computers have an unprecedented ability to do mischief should they ever go to the bad. But the only mayhem comes from unpredictable chaos or from human malice in the form of viruses. We no longer worry about electronic serial killers or subversive silicon cabals because we are beginning to appreciate that malevolence—like vision, motor coordination, and common sense—does not come free with computation but has to be programmed in. (…) Aggression, like every other part of human behavior we take for granted, is a challenging engineering problem!"
― Steven Pinker, How the Mind Works

QUOTE: "The world of the future will be an even more demanding struggle against the limitations of our intelligence, not a comfortable hammock in which we can lie down to be waited upon by our robot slaves."
― Norbert Wiener, The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Society

QUOTE: "You just can't differentiate between a robot and the very best of humans."
― Isaac Asimov, I, Robot

QUOTE: "’Though I may have been constructed,’ he said, ‘so too were you. I in a factory; you in a womb. Neither of us asked for this, but we were given it. Self-awareness is a gift. And it is a gift no thinking thing has any right to deny another. No thinking thing should be another thing's property, to be turned on and off when it is convenient.’"
― C. Robert Cargill, Sea of Rust

QUOTE: "It doesn’t matter whether there’s blood in your veins or hydraulic fluid, it’s everyone’s right to be free."
― W.H. Mitchell, The Arks of Andromeda

QUOTE: "Fears of robotics and technology arise, I think, from two human frailties. One is cognitive: we simply do not know what ­future technological change ­will be and thus cannot tell what new jobs will be created, what our ­future needs ­will be, or how raw materials ­will be used. The second is psychological: we get a thrill from fear of the unknown—in this case, the scary and yet alluring prospect of metallic robots replacing flesh-­and-­blood workers on the factory floor."
― Branko Milanović, Capitalism, Alone: The Future of the System That Rules the World

QUOTE: "There are an endless number of things to discover about robotics. A lot of it is just too fantastic for people to believe."
― Daniel H. Wilson

SUBTOPIC: Virtual Reality

QUOTE: "Once out of the body you will be able to choose any form you like, and change it as often as you like. Animal, vegetable, mineral. The gods appeared in human form and animal form, and they changed others into trees or birds. Those were stories about the future. We have always known that we are not limited to the shape we inhabit."
― Jeanette Winterson, Frankissstein: A Love Story

QUOTE: "The fact that we can, possibly in the future, create virtual realities with conscious beings is truly astonishing, for we have evolved from single-celled organisms that did not have a brain."
― Rajesh`, Random Cosmos

QUOTE: "We can change an ugly reality in a real way or in a virtual way! And because it is much easier, people prefer the virtual path and thus the real ugliness continues to remain real!"
― Mehmet Murat ildan

QUOTE: "We find ourselves in a historical moment of pervasive mediocrity. Fuelled by basic human drives - flights from death and boredom - the new technologies, bright and all consuming, increasingly blur the lines between direct experience and representation. A photograph of an apple is not food and the Internet has neither scent nor texture."
― Jonathan S. Simons, The Analog Sea Review: An Offline Journal: Number One

QUOTE: "At times we'll want to escape our polluted reality… not augment it with digital debris."
― Clyde DeSouza

QUOTE: "The fact that all of this was happening in virtual space made no difference. Being virtually killed by virtual laser in virtual space is just as effective as the real thing, because you are as dead as you think you are."
― Douglas Adams, Mostly Harmless

QUOTE: "There are as many applications for VR as you can think of, it’s restricted by your imagination."
― John Goddard, HTC Vive

QUOTE: "Virtual reality is like dreaming with your eyes open."
― Brennan Spiegel, 'What Impact Will Virtual Reality Have On Businesses?'

QUOTE: "Virtual reality is the first step in a grand adventure into the landscape of the imagination."
― Frank biocca, TAEYONG KIM, & MARK R. LEVY

QUOTE: "Virtual reality is real to the person experiencing it, says Ross. ‘It hard wires the brain.’ The brain records to memory things that happen in a virtual world. He tells about a group of ‘hard-core gamers’ who were invited to play Russian roulette in VR. They found it intriguing at first. Pick up a single virtual bullet. Load it into the chamber of a virtual pistol. Spin the chamber. Put the virtual pistol to their head. Pull the trigger. As might be expected, mostly ‘clicks’ were heard as the experiment went on. But for those whose guns ‘fired’ ... ‘They suffered PTSD,’ Ross tells the suddenly quiet crowd. Some required months of counseling to recover from the experience."
― Robert Bowden, 'Inside the World of Virtual Reality'

ENDFILE